ovn-controller(8)             Open vSwitch Manual            ovn-controller(8)



NAME
       ovn-controller - Open Virtual Network local controller

SYNOPSIS
       ovn-controller [options] [ovs-database]

DESCRIPTION
       ovn-controller is the local controller daemon for OVN, the Open Virtual
       Network.  It connects up to the OVN Southbound database (see ovn-sb(5))
       over  the  OVSDB  protocol,  and down to the Open vSwitch database (see
       ovs-vswitchd.conf.db(5)) over the OVSDB protocol and to ovs-vswitchd(8)
       via  OpenFlow.   Each hypervisor and software gateway in an OVN deploy‐
       ment runs its own independent copy of  ovn-controller;  thus,  ovn-con‐
       troller’s  downward connections are machine-local and do not run over a
       physical network.

CONFIGURATION
       ovn-controller retrieves most of its configuration information from the
       local  Open  vSwitch’s  ovsdb-server instance.  The default location is
       db.sock in the local Open vSwitch’s "run" directory.  It may  be  over‐
       ridden  by specifying the ovs-database argument in one of the following
       forms:

              ·      ssl:ip:port

                     The specified SSL port on the host at the given ip, which
                     must  be  expressed  as an IP address (not a DNS name) in
                     IPv4 or IPv6 address format.  If ip is an  IPv6  address,
                     then  wrap ip with square brackets, e.g.: ssl:[::1]:6640.
                     The --private-key, --certificate and either of  --ca-cert
                     or  --bootstrap-ca-cert  options  are mandatory when this
                     form is used.

              ·      tcp:ip:port

                     Connect to the given TCP port on ip, where ip can be IPv4
                     or  IPv6  address. If ip is an IPv6 address, then wrap ip
                     with square brackets, e.g.: tcp:[::1]:6640.

              ·      unix:file

                     On POSIX, connect to the Unix domain server socket  named
                     file.

                     On  Windows,  connect to a localhost TCP port whose value
                     is written in file.

       ovn-controller assumes it gets configuration information from the  fol‐
       lowing keys in the Open_vSwitch table of the local OVS instance:

              external_ids:system-id
                     The chassis name to use in the Chassis table.

              external_ids:ovn-bridge
                     The   integration  bridge  to  which  logical  ports  are
                     attached.  The default is br-int.  If  this  bridge  does
                     not  exist when ovn-controller starts, it will be created
                     automatically with the default configuration suggested in
                     ovn-architecture(7).

              external_ids:ovn-remote
                     The  OVN  database that this system should connect to for
                     its configuration.

                     Currently, ovn-controller does not support changing  this
                     setting  mid-run.  If the value needs to change, the dae‐
                     mon  must  be  restarted.   (This  behavior   should   be
                     improved.)

              external_ids:ovn-encap-type
                     The  encapsulation type that a chassis should use to con‐
                     nect to this node.  Multiple encapsulation types  may  be
                     specified  with  a  comma-separated  list.   Each  listed
                     encapsulation type will be paired with ovn-encap-ip.

                     Supported tunnel types  for  connecting  hypervisors  are
                     geneve and stt.  Gateways may use geneve, vxlan, or stt.

                     Due to the limited amount of metadata in vxlan, the capa‐
                     bilities and performance of connected  gateways  will  be
                     reduced versus other tunnel formats.

              external_ids:ovn-encap-ip
                     The  IP  address  that a chassis should use to connect to
                     this node using encapsulation types specified  by  exter‐
                     nal_ids:ovn-encap-type.

              external_ids:ovn-bridge-mappings
                     A  list  of  key-value  pairs that map a physical network
                     name to a local ovs bridge that provides connectivity  to
                     that network.  An example value mapping two physical net‐
                     work  names  to  two  ovs   bridges   would   be:   phys‐
                     net1:br-eth0,physnet2:br-eth1.

OPEN VSWITCH DATABASE USAGE
       ovn-controller  uses  a number of external-ids keys in the Open vSwitch
       database to keep track of ports and interfaces.  For proper  operation,
       users should not change or clear these keys:

              external_ids:ovn-chassis-id in the Port table
                     The  presence of this key identifies a tunnel port within
                     the integration bridge as one created  by  ovn-controller
                     to  reach  a remote chassis.  Its value is the chassis ID
                     of the remote chassis.

              external-ids:ovn-localnet-port in the Port
                     table The presence of this key identifies a patch port as
                     one  created by ovn-controller to connect the integration
                     bridge and another bridge to implement a localnet logical
                     port.  Its value is the name of the physical network that
                     the port  implements.   See  external_ids:ovn-bridge-map‐
                     pings, above, for more information.

                     Each  localnet  logical  port is implemented as a pair of
                     patch ports, one in the integration bridge, one in a dif‐
                     ferent  bridge,  with  the  same  external-ids:ovn-local‐
                     net-port value.

              external-ids:ovn-logical-patch-port in the
                     Port table This key identifies a patch port as  one  cre‐
                     ated  by ovn-controller to implement an OVN logical patch
                     port within the integration bridge.   Its  value  is  the
                     name of the OVN logical patch port that it implements.

RUNTIME MANAGEMENT COMMANDS
       ovs-appctl  can send commands to a running ovn-controller process.  The
       currently supported commands are described below.

              exit   Causes ovn-controller to gracefully terminate.

              ct-zone-list
                     Lists each local logical port and its connection tracking
                     zone.



Open vSwitch 2.5.1              ovn-controller               ovn-controller(8)
