ovn-sbctl(8)                  Open vSwitch Manual                 ovn-sbctl(8)



NAME
       ovn-sbctl  -  utility for querying and configuring OVN_Southbound data‐
       base

SYNOPSIS
       ovn-sbctl [options] -- [options] command [args] [--  [options]  command
       [args]]...

DESCRIPTION
       The ovn-sbctl program configures the OVN_Southbound database by provid‐
       ing  a  high-level  interface  to  its  configuration  database.    See
       ovn-sb(5) for comprehensive documentation of the database schema.

       ovn-sbctl  connects  to  an  ovsdb-server  process  that  maintains  an
       OVN_Southbound  configuration  database.   Using  this  connection,  it
       queries  and possibly applies changes to the database, depending on the
       supplied commands.

       ovn-sbctl can perform any number of commands in a  single  run,  imple‐
       mented as a single atomic transaction against the database.

       The  ovn-sbctl  command  line  begins  with global options (see OPTIONS
       below for details).  The global options are followed  by  one  or  more
       commands.   Each  command  should begin with -- by itself as a command-
       line argument, to separate it from the  following  commands.   (The  --
       before  the first command is optional.)  The command itself starts with
       command-specific options, if any, followed by the command name and  any
       arguments.

OPTIONS
       The  following  options  affect  the  behavior of ovn-sbctl as a whole.
       Some individual commands also accept their own options, which are given
       just before the command name.  If the first command on the command line
       has options, then those options  must  be  separated  from  the  global
       options by --.

       --db=server
              The OVSDB database remote to contact.  If the OVN_SB_DB environ‐
              ment variable is set, its value is used as the default.   Other‐
              wise,      the      default      is     unix:/home/joe/git/open‐
              vswitch/_run/run/db.sock, but this default  is  unlikely  to  be
              useful outside of single-machine OVN test environments.

              server must take one of the following forms:

              ssl:ip:port
                     The specified SSL port on the host at the given ip, which
                     must be expressed as an IP address (not a  DNS  name)  in
                     IPv4  or  IPv6 address format.  If ip is an IPv6 address,
                     then wrap ip with square brackets, e.g.:  ssl:[::1]:6640.
                     The  --private-key,  --certificate, and --ca-cert options
                     are mandatory when this form is used.

              tcp:ip:port
                     Connect to the given TCP port on ip, where ip can be IPv4
                     or  IPv6  address. If ip is an IPv6 address, then wrap ip
                     with square brackets, e.g.: tcp:[::1]:6640.

              unix:file
                     On POSIX, connect to the Unix domain server socket  named
                     file.

                     On  Windows, connect to a local named pipe that is repre‐
                     sented by a file created in the path file  to  mimic  the
                     behavior of a Unix domain socket.

              pssl:port[:ip]
                     Listen  on  the  given  SSL  port  for  a connection.  By
                     default, connections are not bound to a particular  local
                     IP  address  and  it  listens only on IPv4 (but not IPv6)
                     addresses, but specifying ip limits connections to  those
                     from the given ip, either IPv4 or IPv6 address.  If ip is
                     an IPv6 address, then wrap ip with square brackets, e.g.:
                     pssl:6640:[::1].   The  --private-key, --certificate, and
                     --ca-cert options are mandatory when this form is used.

              ptcp:port[:ip]
                     Listen on the  given  TCP  port  for  a  connection.   By
                     default,  connections are not bound to a particular local
                     IP address and it listens only on  IPv4  (but  not  IPv6)
                     addresses,  but  ip  may  be specified to listen only for
                     connections to the given ip, either IPv4 or IPv6 address.
                     If ip is an IPv6 address, then wrap ip with square brack‐
                     ets, e.g.: ptcp:6640:[::1].

              punix:file
                     On POSIX, listen on the Unix domain server  socket  named
                     file for a connection.

                     On Windows, listen on a local named pipe.  A file is cre‐
                     ated in the path file to mimic the  behavior  of  a  Unix
                     domain socket.

       --no-syslog
              By  default, ovn-sbctl logs its arguments and the details of any
              changes that it makes to the system log.  This  option  disables
              this logging.

              This option is equivalent to --verbose=sbctl:syslog:warn.

       --oneline
              Modifies  the  output format so that the output for each command
              is printed on a single line.   New-line  characters  that  would
              otherwise separate lines are printed as \n, and any instances of
              \ that would otherwise appear in the output are doubled.  Prints
              a  blank  line for each command that has no output.  This option
              does not affect the formatting of output from the list  or  find
              commands; see Table Formatting Options below.

       --dry-run
              Prevents ovn-sbctl from actually modifying the database.

       -t secs
       --timeout=secs
              By  default,  or with a secs of 0, ovn-sbctl waits forever for a
              response from the  database.   This  option  limits  runtime  to
              approximately  secs  seconds.  If the timeout expires, ovn-sbctl
              will exit with a SIGALRM signal.  (A timeout would normally hap‐
              pen  only  if the database cannot be contacted, or if the system
              is overloaded.)

       -v[spec]
       --verbose=[spec]
              Sets logging levels.  Without any spec, sets the log  level  for
              every  module and destination to dbg.  Otherwise, spec is a list
              of words separated by spaces or commas or colons, up to one from
              each category below:

              ·      A  valid  module name, as displayed by the vlog/list com‐
                     mand on ovs-appctl(8), limits the log level change to the
                     specified module.

              ·      syslog,  console,  or file, to limit the log level change
                     to only to the system log, to the console, or to a  file,
                     respectively.    (If  --detach  is  specified,  ovn-sbctl
                     closes its standard file descriptors, so logging  to  the
                     console will have no effect.)

                     On  Windows platform, syslog is accepted as a word and is
                     only useful along with the  --syslog-target  option  (the
                     word has no effect otherwise).

              ·      off,  emer,  err,  warn, info, or dbg, to control the log
                     level.  Messages of the given severity or higher will  be
                     logged,  and  messages of lower severity will be filtered
                     out.  off filters out all  messages.   See  ovs-appctl(8)
                     for a definition of each log level.

              Case is not significant within spec.

              Regardless  of  the  log  levels set for file, logging to a file
              will not take place unless --log-file  is  also  specified  (see
              below).

              For compatibility with older versions of OVS, any is accepted as
              a word but has no effect.

       -v
       --verbose
              Sets the maximum logging verbosity level, equivalent  to  --ver‐
              bose=dbg.

       -vPATTERN:destination:pattern
       --verbose=PATTERN:destination:pattern
              Sets  the  log  pattern  for  destination  to pattern.  Refer to
              ovs-appctl(8) for a description of the valid syntax for pattern.

       -vFACILITY:facility
       --verbose=FACILITY:facility
              Sets the RFC5424 facility of the log message.  facility  can  be
              one  of kern, user, mail, daemon, auth, syslog, lpr, news, uucp,
              clock, ftp, ntp, audit, alert, clock2, local0,  local1,  local2,
              local3,  local4, local5, local6 or local7. If this option is not
              specified, daemon is used as the default for  the  local  system
              syslog  and local0 is used while sending a message to the target
              provided via the --syslog-target option.

       --log-file[=file]
              Enables logging to a file.  If file is  specified,  then  it  is
              used  as  the exact name for the log file.  The default log file
              name  used   if   file   is   omitted   is   /home/joe/git/open‐
              vswitch/_run/log/ovn-sbctl.log.

       --syslog-target=host:port
              Send  syslog  messages  to  UDP port on host, in addition to the
              system syslog.  The host must be a numerical IP address,  not  a
              hostname.

       --syslog-method=method
              Specify method how syslog messages should be sent to syslog dae‐
              mon.  Following forms are supported:

              ·      libc, use libc syslog() function.  This  is  the  default
                     behavior.   Downside  of  using this options is that libc
                     adds fixed prefix to every message before it is  actually
                     sent  to  the  syslog  daemon  over  /dev/log UNIX domain
                     socket.

              ·      unix:file, use UNIX domain socket directly.  It is possi‐
                     ble to specify arbitrary message format with this option.
                     However, rsyslogd 8.9 and older versions use  hard  coded
                     parser  function  anyway  that  limits UNIX domain socket
                     use.  If you want to use arbitrary  message  format  with
                     older rsyslogd versions, then use UDP socket to localhost
                     IP address instead.

              ·      udp:ip:port, use UDP socket.  With this method it is pos‐
                     sible  to  use  arbitrary  message format also with older
                     rsyslogd.  When sending syslog messages over  UDP  socket
                     extra  precaution  needs  to  be  taken into account, for
                     example, syslog daemon needs to be configured  to  listen
                     on  the  specified  UDP  port,  accidental iptables rules
                     could be interfering with local syslog traffic and  there
                     are  some security considerations that apply to UDP sock‐
                     ets, but do not apply to UNIX domain sockets.

       -h
       --help Prints a brief help message to the console.

       -V
       --version
              Prints version information to the console.

   Table Formatting Options
       These options control the format of output from the list and find  com‐
       mands.

       -f format
       --format=format
              Sets  the type of table formatting.  The following types of for‐
              mat are available:

              table  2-D text tables with aligned columns.

              list (default)
                     A list with one column per line and rows separated  by  a
                     blank line.

              html   HTML tables.

              csv    Comma-separated values as defined in RFC 4180.

              json   JSON  format  as  defined  in  RFC 4627.  The output is a
                     sequence of JSON objects, each of  which  corresponds  to
                     one  table.   Each  JSON object has the following members
                     with the noted values:

                     caption
                            The table's caption.  This member  is  omitted  if
                            the table has no caption.

                     headings
                            An  array with one element per table column.  Each
                            array element is a string giving the corresponding
                            column's heading.

                     data   An  array  with  one  element per table row.  Each
                            element is also an array with one element per  ta‐
                            ble  column.   The  elements  of this second-level
                            array are the cells  that  constitute  the  table.
                            Cells  that represent OVSDB data or data types are
                            expressed in the format  described  in  the  OVSDB
                            specification; other cells are simply expressed as
                            text strings.

       -d format
       --data=format
              Sets the formatting for cells within output tables.  The follow‐
              ing types of format are available:

              string (default)
                     The  simple  format described in the Database Values sec‐
                     tion of ovs-vsctl(8).

              bare   The simple format with punctuation stripped off:  []  and
                     {}  are  omitted  around  sets,  maps, and empty columns,
                     items within  sets  and  maps  are  space-separated,  and
                     strings  are never quoted.  This format may be easier for
                     scripts to parse.

              json   JSON.

              The json output format always  outputs  cells  in  JSON  format,
              ignoring this option.

       --no-heading
              This option suppresses the heading row that otherwise appears in
              the first row of table output.

       --pretty
              By default, JSON in output is printed as compactly as  possible.
              This  option causes JSON in output to be printed in a more read‐
              able fashion.  Members of objects and  elements  of  arrays  are
              printed one per line, with indentation.

              This  option  does  not  affect  JSON in tables, which is always
              printed compactly.

       --bare Equivalent to --format=list --data=bare --no-headings.

   Public Key Infrastructure Options
       -p privkey.pem
       --private-key=privkey.pem
              Specifies  a  PEM  file  containing  the  private  key  used  as
              ovn-sbctl's identity for outgoing SSL connections.

       -c cert.pem
       --certificate=cert.pem
              Specifies a PEM file containing a certificate that certifies the
              private key specified on -p or --private-key to be  trustworthy.
              The certificate must be signed by the certificate authority (CA)
              that the peer in SSL connections will use to verify it.

       -C cacert.pem
       --ca-cert=cacert.pem
              Specifies  a  PEM  file  containing  the  CA  certificate   that
              ovn-sbctl  should  use to verify certificates presented to it by
              SSL peers.  (This may be the same certificate that SSL peers use
              to  verify  the certificate specified on -c or --certificate, or
              it may be a different one, depending on the PKI design in use.)

       -C none
       --ca-cert=none
              Disables verification of certificates presented  by  SSL  peers.
              This  introduces a security risk, because it means that certifi‐
              cates cannot be verified to be those of known trusted hosts.

       --bootstrap-ca-cert=cacert.pem
              When cacert.pem exists, this option has the same effect as -C or
              --ca-cert.  If it does not exist, then ovn-sbctl will attempt to
              obtain the CA certificate from the SSL peer  on  its  first  SSL
              connection and save it to the named PEM file.  If it is success‐
              ful, it will immediately drop the connection and reconnect,  and
              from then on all SSL connections must be authenticated by a cer‐
              tificate signed by the CA certificate thus obtained.

              This option exposes the SSL connection  to  a  man-in-the-middle
              attack  obtaining the initial CA certificate, but it may be use‐
              ful for bootstrapping.

              This option is only useful if the SSL peer sends its CA certifi‐
              cate  as  part  of  the SSL certificate chain.  The SSL protocol
              does not require the server to send the CA certificate.

              This option is mutually exclusive with -C and --ca-cert.

       --peer-ca-cert=peer-cacert.pem
              Specifies a PEM file that contains one or more  additional  cer‐
              tificates  to  send to SSL peers.  peer-cacert.pem should be the
              CA certificate used to sign ovn-sbctl's  own  certificate,  that
              is,  the  certificate  specified  on  -c  or  --certificate.  If
              ovn-sbctl's certificate is self-signed, then  --certificate  and
              --peer-ca-cert should specify the same file.

              This  option  is not useful in normal operation, because the SSL
              peer must already have the CA certificate for the peer  to  have
              any  confidence in ovn-sbctl's identity.  However, this offers a
              way for a new installation to bootstrap the  CA  certificate  on
              its first SSL connection.

COMMANDS
       The  commands  implemented  by  ovn-sbctl are described in the sections
       below.

   OVN_Southbound Commands
       These commands work with an OVN_Southbound database as a whole.

       init   Initializes the database, if it is empty.  If the  database  has
              already been initialized, this command has no effect.

       show   Prints a brief overview of the database contents.

   Chassis Commands
       These commands manipulate OVN_Southbound chassis.

       [--may-exist] chassis-add chassis encap-type encap-ip
              Creates a new chassis named chassis.  encap-type is a comma-sep‐
              arated list of tunnel types.  The chassis will  have  one  encap
              entry for each specified tunnel type with encap-ip as the desti‐
              nation IP for each.

              Without --may-exist, attempting to create a chassis that  exists
              is  an  error.   With  --may-exist, this command does nothing if
              chassis already exists.

       [--if-exists] chassis-del chassis
              Deletes chassis and its encaps and gateway_ports.

              Without --if-exists, attempting to delete a  chassis  that  does
              not exist is an error.  With --if-exists, attempting to delete a
              chassis that does not exist has no effect.

   Port binding Commands
       These commands manipulate OVN_Southbound port bindings.

       [--may-exist] lsp-bind logical-port chassis
              Binds the logical port named logical-port to chassis.

              Without --may-exist, attempting to bind a logical port that  has
              already  been bound is an error.  With --may-exist, this command
              does nothing if logical-port has already been bound to  a  chas‐
              sis.

       [--if-exists] lsp-unbind logical-port
              Resets the binding of logical-port to NULL.

              Without --if-exists, attempting to unbind a logical port that is
              not bound is an error.  With --if-exists, attempting  to  unbind
              logical port that is not bound has no effect.

   Logical Flow Commands
       [--uuid] lflow-list [logical-datapath] [lflow...]
              List logical flows.  If logical-datapath is specified, only list
              flows for that logical datapath.  The  logical-datapath  may  be
              given  as  a  UUID  or as a datapath name (reporting an error if
              multiple datapaths have the same name).

              If at least one lflow is given, only matching logical flows,  if
              any,  are  listed.  Each lflow may be specified as a UUID or the
              first few characters of  a  UUID,  optionally  prefixed  by  0x.
              (Because  ovn-controller sets OpenFlow flow cookies to the first
              32 bits of the corresponding logical flow's UUID, this makes  it
              easy  to  look  up  the logical flow that generated a particular
              OpenFlow flow.)

              If --uuid is specified, the output includes the first 32 bits of
              each  logical  flow's  UUID.   This  makes it easier to find the
              OpenFlow flows that correspond to a given logical flow.

       [--uuid] dump-flows [logical-datapath]
              Alias for lflow-list.

   Remote Connectivity Commands
       These commands manipulate the connections column in the SB_Global table
       and  rows  in the Connection table.  When ovsdb-server is configured to
       use the connections column  for  OVSDB  connections,  this  allows  the
       administrator to use ovn-sbctl to configure database connections.

       get-connection
              Prints the configured connection(s).

       del-connection
              Deletes the configured connection(s).

       set-connection [access-specifier] target...
              Sets  the configured manager target or targets.  Each target may
              be  preceded  by  an  optional  access-specifier  (read-only  or
              read-write) and may use any of the following forms:

              ssl:ip:port
                     The specified SSL port on the host at the given ip, which
                     must be expressed as an IP address (not a  DNS  name)  in
                     IPv4  or  IPv6 address format.  If ip is an IPv6 address,
                     then wrap ip with square brackets, e.g.:  ssl:[::1]:6640.
                     The  --private-key,  --certificate, and --ca-cert options
                     are mandatory when this form is used.

              tcp:ip:port
                     Connect to the given TCP port on ip, where ip can be IPv4
                     or  IPv6  address. If ip is an IPv6 address, then wrap ip
                     with square brackets, e.g.: tcp:[::1]:6640.

              unix:file
                     On POSIX, connect to the Unix domain server socket  named
                     file.

                     On  Windows, connect to a local named pipe that is repre‐
                     sented by a file created in the path file  to  mimic  the
                     behavior of a Unix domain socket.

              pssl:port[:ip]
                     Listen  on  the  given  SSL  port  for  a connection.  By
                     default, connections are not bound to a particular  local
                     IP  address  and  it  listens only on IPv4 (but not IPv6)
                     addresses, but specifying ip limits connections to  those
                     from the given ip, either IPv4 or IPv6 address.  If ip is
                     an IPv6 address, then wrap ip with square brackets, e.g.:
                     pssl:6640:[::1].   The  --private-key, --certificate, and
                     --ca-cert options are mandatory when this form is used.

              ptcp:port[:ip]
                     Listen on the  given  TCP  port  for  a  connection.   By
                     default,  connections are not bound to a particular local
                     IP address and it listens only on  IPv4  (but  not  IPv6)
                     addresses,  but  ip  may  be specified to listen only for
                     connections to the given ip, either IPv4 or IPv6 address.
                     If ip is an IPv6 address, then wrap ip with square brack‐
                     ets, e.g.: ptcp:6640:[::1].

              punix:file
                     On POSIX, listen on the Unix domain server  socket  named
                     file for a connection.

                     On Windows, listen on a local named pipe.  A file is cre‐
                     ated in the path file to mimic the  behavior  of  a  Unix
                     domain socket.

       If provided, the effect of the access specifier persists for subsequent
       targets until changed by another access specifier.

   SSL Configuration
       When ovsdb-server is configured to connect  using  SSL,  the  following
       parameters are required:

       private-key
              Specifies  a  PEM  file  containing the private key used for SSL
              connections.

       certificate
              Specifies a PEM file containing a  certificate,  signed  by  the
              certificate  authority  (CA)  used by the connection peers, that
              certifies the private key, identifying a trustworthy peer.

       ca-cert
              Specifies a PEM file containing the CA certificate used to  ver‐
              ify that the connection peers are trustworthy.

       These  SSL settings apply to all SSL connections made by the southbound
       database server.

       get-ssl
              Prints the SSL configuration.

       del-ssl
              Deletes the current SSL configuration.

       [--bootstrap] set-ssl private-key certificate ca-cert
              Sets the SSL configuration.  The --bootstrap option is described
              below.

     CA Certificate Bootstrap

       Ordinarily,  all of the files named in the SSL configuration must exist
       before SSL connectivity can be used.  However, if the ca-cert file does
       not  exist  and the --bootstrap option is given, then ovsdb-server will
       attempt to obtain the CA certificate from the target on its  first  SSL
       connection  and save it to the named PEM file.  If it is successful, it
       will immediately drop the connection and reconnect, and  from  then  on
       all  SSL  connections  must be authenticated by a certificate signed by
       the CA certificate thus obtained.

       This option exposes the SSL connection to  a  man-in-the-middle  attack
       obtaining  the  initial  CA certificate, but it may be useful for boot‐
       strapping.

       This option is only useful if the SSL peer sends its CA certificate  as
       part  of  the SSL certificate chain.  The SSL protocol does not require
       the controller to send the CA certificate.

     Database Values

       Each column in the database accepts a fixed type  of  data.   The  cur‐
       rently defined basic types, and their representations, are:

       integer
              A decimal integer in the range -2**63 to 2**63-1, inclusive.

       real   A floating-point number.

       Boolean
              True or false, written true or false, respectively.

       string An  arbitrary  Unicode  string,  except  that null bytes are not
              allowed.  Quotes are optional for most strings that  begin  with
              an  English  letter  or  underscore and consist only of letters,
              underscores, hyphens, and periods.  However, true and false  and
              strings  that  match  the  syntax  of  UUIDs (see below) must be
              enclosed in double quotes to distinguish them from  other  basic
              types.   When  double  quotes  are  used,  the syntax is that of
              strings in JSON, e.g. backslashes may be used to escape  special
              characters.   The  empty string must be represented as a pair of
              double quotes ("").

       UUID   Either a universally unique identifier in the style of RFC 4122,
              e.g.  f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6,  or an @name defined
              by a get or create command within the same ovn-sbctl invocation.

       Multiple values in a single column may be separated by spaces or a sin‐
       gle  comma.   When  multiple  values  are  present,  duplicates are not
       allowed, and order is not important.  Conversely, some database columns
       can have an empty set of values, represented as [], and square brackets
       may optionally enclose other non-empty sets or single values  as  well.
       For  a  column  accepting a set of integers, database commands accept a
       range. A range is represented by two integers separated by -.  A  range
       is inclusive. A range has a maximum size of 4096 elements. If more ele‐
       ments are needed, they can be specified in seperate ranges.

       A few database columns are ``maps'' of key-value pairs, where  the  key
       and  the  value are each some fixed database type.  These are specified
       in the form key=value, where key and value follow the  syntax  for  the
       column's  key  type  and value type, respectively.  When multiple pairs
       are present (separated by spaces or a comma), duplicate  keys  are  not
       allowed,  and  again  the order is not important.  Duplicate values are
       allowed.  An empty map is represented as {}.  Curly braces may  option‐
       ally  enclose  non-empty  maps  as  well (but use quotes to prevent the
       shell  from  expanding  other-config={0=x,1=y}  into   other-config=0=x
       other-config=1=y, which may not have the desired effect).

     Database Command Syntax

       [--if-exists] [--columns=column[,column]...] list table [record]...
              Lists  the  data  in  each  specified record.  If no records are
              specified, lists all the records in table.

              If --columns  is  specified,  only  the  requested  columns  are
              listed,  in  the  specified  order.   Otherwise, all columns are
              listed, in alphabetical order by column name.

              Without --if-exists, it is an error if any specified record does
              not  exist.   With  --if-exists,  the command ignores any record
              that does not exist, without producing any output.

       [--columns=column[,column]...] find table [column[:key]=value]...
              Lists the data in each record in table whose column equals value
              or,  if  key  is specified, whose column contains a key with the
              specified value.  The following operators may be used where = is
              written in the syntax summary:

              = != < > <= >=
                     Selects  records  in  which column[:key] equals, does not
                     equal, is less than, is greater than,  is  less  than  or
                     equal  to,  or is greater than or equal to value, respec‐
                     tively.

                     Consider column[:key] and  value  as  sets  of  elements.
                     Identical  sets  are considered equal.  Otherwise, if the
                     sets have different numbers of  elements,  then  the  set
                     with  more  elements  is considered to be larger.  Other‐
                     wise, consider a  element  from  each  set  pairwise,  in
                     increasing  order  within  each set.  The first pair that
                     differs determines the result.  (For a column  that  con‐
                     tains  key-value  pairs, first all the keys are compared,
                     and values are considered only if the  two  sets  contain
                     identical keys.)

              {=} {!=}
                     Test for set equality or inequality, respectively.

              {<=}   Selects  records  in  which  column[:key]  is a subset of
                     value.  For example, flood-vlans{<=}1,2  selects  records
                     in  which the flood-vlans column is the empty set or con‐
                     tains 1 or 2 or both.

              {<}    Selects records in which column[:key] is a proper  subset
                     of value.  For example, flood-vlans{<}1,2 selects records
                     in which the flood-vlans column is the empty set or  con‐
                     tains 1 or 2 but not both.

              {>=} {>}
                     Same as {<=} and {<}, respectively, except that the rela‐
                     tionship is reversed.   For  example,  flood-vlans{>=}1,2
                     selects  records in which the flood-vlans column contains
                     both 1 and 2.

              For arithmetic operators (= != < > <= >=), when key is specified
              but  a  particular  record's  column  does  not contain key, the
              record is always omitted from the results.  Thus, the  condition
              other-config:mtu!=1500 matches records that have a mtu key whose
              value is not 1500, but not those that lack an mtu key.

              For the set operators, when key is specified  but  a  particular
              record's  column  does  not  contain key, the comparison is done
              against  an  empty  set.    Thus,   the   condition   other-con‐
              fig:mtu{!=}1500  matches records that have a mtu key whose value
              is not 1500 and those that lack an mtu key.

              Don't forget to escape < or > from interpretation by the shell.

              If --columns  is  specified,  only  the  requested  columns  are
              listed,  in  the  specified  order.   Otherwise  all columns are
              listed, in alphabetical order by column name.

              The UUIDs shown for rows created in the same  ovn-sbctl  invoca‐
              tion will be wrong.

       [--if-exists] [--id=@name] get table record [column[:key]]...
              Prints the value of each specified column in the given record in
              table.  For map columns, a key may optionally be  specified,  in
              which  case  the  value  associated  with  key  in the column is
              printed, instead of the entire map.

              Without --if-exists, it is an error if record does not exist  or
              key  is  specified,  if  key  does  not  exist  in record.  With
              --if-exists, a missing record yields no output and a missing key
              prints a blank line.

              If  @name is specified, then the UUID for record may be referred
              to by that name later in the same ovn-sbctl invocation  in  con‐
              texts where a UUID is expected.

              Both  --id and the column arguments are optional, but usually at
              least one or the other should be specified.  If both  are  omit‐
              ted,  then get has no effect except to verify that record exists
              in table.

              --id and --if-exists cannot be used together.

       [--if-exists] set table record column[:key]=value...
              Sets the value of each specified column in the given  record  in
              table to value.  For map columns, a key may optionally be speci‐
              fied, in which case the value associated with key in that column
              is  changed  (or  added,  if none exists), instead of the entire
              map.

              Without --if-exists, it is an error if record  does  not  exist.
              With  --if-exists,  this command does nothing if record does not
              exist.

       [--if-exists] add table record column [key=]value...
              Adds the specified value or key-value pair to column  in  record
              in  table.   If column is a map, then key is required, otherwise
              it is prohibited.  If key already exists in a map  column,  then
              the  current  value  is  not  replaced  (use  the set command to
              replace an existing value).

              Without --if-exists, it is an error if record  does  not  exist.
              With  --if-exists,  this command does nothing if record does not
              exist.

       [--if-exists] remove table record column value...
       [--if-exists] remove table record column key...
       [--if-exists] remove table record column key=value...
              Removes the specified values or key-value pairs from  column  in
              record in table.  The first form applies to columns that are not
              maps: each specified value is removed from the column.  The sec‐
              ond and third forms apply to map columns: if only a key is spec‐
              ified, then any key-value pair with the given  key  is  removed,
              regardless  of  its  value;  if  a value is given then a pair is
              removed only if both key and value match.

              It is not an error if the column does not contain the  specified
              key or value or pair.

              Without  --if-exists,  it  is an error if record does not exist.
              With --if-exists, this command does nothing if record  does  not
              exist.

       [--if-exists] clear table record column...
              Sets  each  column  in record in table to the empty set or empty
              map, as appropriate.  This command applies only to columns  that
              are allowed to be empty.

              Without  --if-exists,  it  is an error if record does not exist.
              With --if-exists, this command does nothing if record  does  not
              exist.

       [--id=@name] create table column[:key]=value...
              Creates  a  new  record  in table and sets the initial values of
              each column.  Columns not  explicitly  set  will  receive  their
              default values.  Outputs the UUID of the new row.

              If  @name  is  specified,  then  the UUID for the new row may be
              referred to by that name elsewhere in the same ovn-sbctl invoca‐
              tion  in contexts where a UUID is expected.  Such references may
              precede or follow the create command.

              Caution (ovs-vsctl as exmaple)
                     Records in the Open vSwitch database are significant only
                     when  they can be reached directly or indirectly from the
                     Open_vSwitch table.  Except for records  in  the  QoS  or
                     Queue  tables,  records  that  are not reachable from the
                     Open_vSwitch table are  automatically  deleted  from  the
                     database.   This  deletion  happens  immediately, without
                     waiting for additional ovs-vsctl commands or other  data‐
                     base  activity.  Thus, a create command must generally be
                     accompanied  by  additional  commands  within  the   same
                     ovs-vsctl  invocation to add a chain of references to the
                     newly created  record  from  the  top-level  Open_vSwitch
                     record.   The  EXAMPLES  section gives some examples that
                     show how to do this.

       [--if-exists] destroy table record...
              Deletes each specified record from table.  Unless --if-exists is
              specified, each records must exist.

       --all destroy table
              Deletes all records from the table.

              Caution (ovs-vsctl as exmaple)
                     The destroy command is only useful for records in the QoS
                     or Queue tables.  Records in other tables  are  automati‐
                     cally deleted from the database when they become unreach‐
                     able from the Open_vSwitch table.  This means that delet‐
                     ing  the  last  reference  to  a record is sufficient for
                     deleting the record itself.  For records in these tables,
                     destroy  is  silently  ignored.  See the EXAMPLES section
                     below for more information.

       wait-until table record [column[:key]=value]...
              Waits until table contains a record named  record  whose  column
              equals  value  or,  if key is specified, whose column contains a
              key with the specified value.  Any of the operators  !=,  <,  >,
              <=,  or >= may be substituted for = to test for inequality, less
              than, greater than, less than or equal to, or  greater  than  or
              equal  to,  respectively.   (Don't  forget to escape < or > from
              interpretation by the shell.)

              If no column[:key]=value arguments are given, this command waits
              only  until  record  exists.   If more than one such argument is
              given, the command waits until all of them are satisfied.

              Caution (ovs-vsctl as exmaple)
                     Usually wait-until should be placed at the beginning of a
                     set  of  ovs-vsctl  commands.   For  example,  wait-until
                     bridge br0 -- get bridge br0 datapath_id  waits  until  a
                     bridge  named br0 is created, then prints its datapath_id
                     column, whereas get bridge br0 datapath_id --  wait-until
                     bridge  br0 will abort if no bridge named br0 exists when
                     ovs-vsctl initially connects to the database.

              Consider specifying --timeout=0 along with --wait-until, to pre‐
              vent  ovn-sbctl  from  terminating  after waiting only at most 5
              seconds.

       comment [arg]...
              This command has no effect on behavior,  but  any  database  log
              record  created  by the command will include the command and its
              arguments.

EXIT STATUS
       0      Successful program execution.

       1      Usage, syntax, or configuration file error.

SEE ALSO
       ovn-sb(5).



Open vSwitch                        2.7.90                        ovn-sbctl(8)
