ovs-ofctl(8)                  Open vSwitch Manual                 ovs-ofctl(8)



NAME
       ovs-ofctl - administer OpenFlow switches

SYNOPSIS
       ovs-ofctl [options] command [switch] [args...]

DESCRIPTION
       The  ovs-ofctl program is a command line tool for monitoring and admin‐
       istering OpenFlow switches.  It can also show the current state  of  an
       OpenFlow  switch, including features, configuration, and table entries.
       It should work with any OpenFlow switch, not just Open vSwitch.

   OpenFlow Switch Management Commands
       These commands allow ovs-ofctl to monitor and  administer  an  OpenFlow
       switch.   It  is  able to show the current state of a switch, including
       features, configuration, and table entries.

       Most of these commands take an argument that specifies the  method  for
       connecting to an OpenFlow switch.  The following connection methods are
       supported:

              ssl:ip[:port]
              tcp:ip[:port]
                     The specified port on the host at  the  given  ip,  which
                     must  be  expressed  as an IP address (not a DNS name) in
                     IPv4 or IPv6 address  format.   Wrap  IPv6  addresses  in
                     square  brackets,  e.g.  tcp:[::1]:6653.   For  ssl,  the
                     --private-key, --certificate, and --ca-cert  options  are
                     mandatory.

                     If port is not specified, it defaults to 6653.

              unix:file
                     On POSIX, a Unix domain server socket named file.

                     On  Windows, connect to a local named pipe that is repre‐
                     sented by a file created in the path file  to  mimic  the
                     behavior of a Unix domain socket.

              file   This  is  short  for  unix:file, as long as file does not
                     contain a colon.

              bridge This   is   short    for    unix:/usr/local/var/run/open‐
                     vswitch/bridge.mgmt, as long as bridge does not contain a
                     colon.

              [type@]dp
                     Attempts to look up the bridge  associated  with  dp  and
                     open  as above.  If type is given, it specifies the data‐
                     path provider of dp, otherwise the default provider  sys‐
                     tem is assumed.

       show switch
              Prints  to the console information on switch, including informa‐
              tion on its flow tables and ports.

       dump-tables switch
              Prints to the console statistics for each  of  the  flow  tables
              used by switch.

       dump-table-features switch
              Prints  to the console features for each of the flow tables used
              by switch.

       dump-table-desc switch
              Prints to the console configuration for each of the flow  tables
              used by switch for OpenFlow 1.4+.

       mod-table switch table_id setting
              This  command  configures flow table settings for OpenFlow table
              table_id within switch.  The available settings  depend  on  the
              OpenFlow version in use.  In OpenFlow 1.1 and 1.2 (which must be
              enabled with the -O option) only, mod-table configures  behavior
              when  no  flow is found when a packet is looked up in a flow ta‐
              ble.  The following setting values are available:

              drop   Drop the packet.

              continue
                     Continue to the next table in the pipeline.  (This is how
                     an OpenFlow 1.0 switch always handles packets that do not
                     match any flow, in tables other than the last one.)

              controller
                     Send to controller.  (This is how an OpenFlow 1.0  switch
                     always  handles packets that do not match any flow in the
                     last table.)

              In OpenFlow 1.4 and later (which must be  enabled  with  the  -O
              option)  only,  mod-table  configures  the  behavior when a con‐
              troller attempts to add a flow to a flow  table  that  is  full.
              The following setting values are available:

              evict  Delete  some existing flow from the flow table, according
                     to the algorithm described for the  Flow_Table  table  in
                     ovs-vswitchd.conf.db(5).

              noevict
                     Refuse  to  add  the  new flow.  (Eviction might still be
                     enabled  through  the  overflow_policy  column   in   the
                     Flow_Table table documented in ovs-vswitchd.conf.db(5).)

              vacancy:low,high
                     Enables  sending  vacancy events to controllers using TA‐
                     BLE_STATUS messages, based on percentage  thresholds  low
                     and high.

              novacancy
                     Disables vacancy events.

       dump-ports switch [netdev]
              Prints  to the console statistics for network devices associated
              with switch.  If netdev is specified, only the statistics  asso‐
              ciated with that device will be printed.  netdev can be an Open‐
              Flow assigned port number or device name, e.g. eth0.

       dump-ports-desc switch [port]
              Prints to the console detailed information about network devices
              associated  with  switch.  To dump only a specific port, specify
              its number as port.  Otherwise, if port is omitted, or if it  is
              specified  as ANY, then all ports are printed.  This is a subset
              of the information provided by the show command.

              If the connection to switch negotiates  OpenFlow  1.0,  1.2,  or
              1.2, this command uses an OpenFlow extension only implemented in
              Open vSwitch (version 1.7 and later).

              Only OpenFlow 1.5 and later support  dumping  a  specific  port.
              Earlier versions of OpenFlow always dump all ports.

       mod-port switch port action
              Modify  characteristics  of port port in switch.  port may be an
              OpenFlow port number or name or the keyword LOCAL (the preferred
              way to refer to the OpenFlow local port).  The action may be any
              one of the following:
              up
              down   Enable or disable the interface.  This is  equivalent  to
                     ifconfig up or ifconfig down on a Unix system.

              stp
              no-stp Enable  or disable 802.1D spanning tree protocol (STP) on
                     the interface.  OpenFlow implementations that don't  sup‐
                     port STP will refuse to enable it.

              receive
              no-receive
              receive-stp
              no-receive-stp
                     Enable or disable OpenFlow processing of packets received
                     on this interface.  When packet processing  is  disabled,
                     packets  will  be  dropped  instead  of  being  processed
                     through the OpenFlow table.  The  receive  or  no-receive
                     setting  applies  to  all  packets except 802.1D spanning
                     tree  packets,  which  are   separately   controlled   by
                     receive-stp or no-receive-stp.

              forward
              no-forward
                     Allow  or  disallow  forwarding of traffic to this inter‐
                     face.  By default, forwarding is enabled.

              flood
              no-flood
                     Controls whether an OpenFlow flood action will send traf‐
                     fic out this interface.  By default, flooding is enabled.
                     Disabling flooding is primarily useful to  prevent  loops
                     when a spanning tree protocol is not in use.

              packet-in
              no-packet-in
                     Controls  whether packets received on this interface that
                     do not match a flow table entry generate a ``packet  in''
                     message to the OpenFlow controller.  By default, ``packet
                     in'' messages are enabled.

              The show command displays (among other information) the configu‐
              ration that mod-port changes.

       get-frags switch
              Prints  switch's  fragment handling mode.  See set-frags, below,
              for a description of each fragment handling mode.

              The show command also prints the fragment  handling  mode  among
              its other output.

       set-frags switch frag_mode
              Configures  switch's  treatment of IPv4 and IPv6 fragments.  The
              choices for frag_mode are:

              normal Fragments pass through the flow table like non-fragmented
                     packets.   The  TCP  ports,  UDP ports, and ICMP type and
                     code fields are always set to 0, even for fragments where
                     that  information would otherwise be available (fragments
                     with offset 0).  This is the  default  fragment  handling
                     mode for an OpenFlow switch.

              drop   Fragments  are  dropped  without passing through the flow
                     table.

              reassemble
                     The switch reassembles fragments  into  full  IP  packets
                     before passing them through the flow table.  Open vSwitch
                     does not implement this fragment handling mode.

              nx-match
                     Fragments pass through the flow table like non-fragmented
                     packets.   The  TCP  ports,  UDP ports, and ICMP type and
                     code fields are available for matching for fragments with
                     offset  0, and set to 0 in fragments with nonzero offset.
                     This mode is a Nicira extension.

              See the description of ip_frag, below, for a  way  to  match  on
              whether a packet is a fragment and on its fragment offset.

       dump-flows switch [flows]
              Prints  to  the console all flow entries in switch's tables that
              match flows.  If flows is omitted, all flows in the  switch  are
              retrieved.   See  Flow  Syntax,  below, for the syntax of flows.
              The output format is described in Table Entry Output.

              By default, ovs-ofctl prints flow entries in the same order that
              the switch sends them, which is unlikely to be intuitive or con‐
              sistent.  See the  description  of  --sort  and  --rsort,  under
              OPTIONS below, to influence the display order.

       dump-aggregate switch [flows]
              Prints to the console aggregate statistics for flows in switch's
              tables that match flows.  If flows is  omitted,  the  statistics
              are  aggregated  across  all  flows in the switch's flow tables.
              See Flow Syntax, below, for the syntax  of  flows.   The  output
              format is described in Table Entry Output.

       queue-stats switch [port [queue]]
              Prints to the console statistics for the specified queue on port
              within switch.  port can be an OpenFlow port number or name, the
              keyword  LOCAL (the preferred way to refer to the OpenFlow local
              port), or the keyword ALL.  Either of port or queue or both  may
              be omitted (or equivalently the keyword ALL).  If both are omit‐
              ted, statistics are printed for all queues  on  all  ports.   If
              only  queue  is  omitted,  then  statistics  are printed for all
              queues on port; if only port is  omitted,  then  statistics  are
              printed for queue on every port where it exists.

       queue-get-config switch [port [queue]]
              Prints  to  the  console  the  configuration of queue on port in
              switch.  If port is omitted or ANY, reports queues for all port.
              If  queue  is  omitted or ANY, reports all queues.  For OpenFlow
              1.3 and earlier, the output always includes all queues, ignoring
              queue if specified.

              This command has limited usefulness, because ports often have no
              configured queues and because  the  OpenFlow  protocol  provides
              only  very  limited  information  about  the  configuration of a
              queue.

       dump-ipfix-bridge switch
              Prints to the console the statistics of bridge IPFIX for switch.
              If  bridge  IPFIX  is configured on the switch, IPFIX statistics
              can be retrieved.  Otherwise, error message will be printed.

              This command uses an Open vSwitch extension that is only in Open
              vSwitch 2.6 and later.

       dump-ipfix-flow switch
              Prints  to  the  console  the statistics of flow-based IPFIX for
              switch.  If flow-based IPFIX is configured on the  switch,  sta‐
              tistics  of  all  the  collector  set  ids on the switch will be
              printed.  Otherwise, print error message.

              Refer to ovs-vswitchd.conf.db(5) for more details on configuring
              flow based IPFIX and collector set ids.

              This command uses an Open vSwitch extension that is only in Open
              vSwitch 2.6 and later.

       ct-flush-zone switch zone
              Flushes the connection tracking entries in zone on switch.

              This command uses an Open vSwitch extension that is only in Open
              vSwitch 2.6 and later.

   OpenFlow 1.1+ Group Table Commands
       The  following  commands  work only with switches that support OpenFlow
       1.1 or later.  Because support for OpenFlow  1.1  and  later  is  still
       experimental  in  Open  vSwitch,  it  is necessary to explicitly enable
       these protocol versions in ovs-ofctl  (using  -O)  and  in  the  switch
       itself  (with  the  protocols  column  in  the Bridge table).  For more
       information, see ``Q: What versions of OpenFlow does Open vSwitch  sup‐
       port?'' in the Open vSwitch FAQ.

       dump-groups switch [group]
              Prints  group  entries  in  switch's tables to console.  To dump
              only a specific group, specify its number as group.   Otherwise,
              if  group  is  omitted,  or  if it is specified as ALL, then all
              groups are printed.  Each line of output is  a  group  entry  as
              described in Group Syntax below.

              Only  OpenFlow  1.5  and later support dumping a specific group.
              Earlier versions of OpenFlow always dump all groups.

       dump-group-features switch
              Prints to the console the group features of the switch.

       dump-group-stats switch [groups]
              Prints to the console statistics for the specified groups in the
              switch's  tables.   If groups is omitted then statistics for all
              groups are printed.  See Group Syntax, below, for the syntax  of
              groups.

   OpenFlow 1.3+ Switch Meter Table Commands
       These  commands  manage the meter table in an OpenFlow switch.  In each
       case, meter specifies a meter entry in the format  described  in  Meter
       Syntax, below.

       OpenFlow 1.3 introduced support for meters, so these commands only work
       with  switches  that  support  OpenFlow  1.3  or  later.   The  caveats
       described for groups in the previous section also apply to meters.

       add-meter switch meter
              Add  a  meter  entry  to  switch's  tables.  The meter syntax is
              described in section Meter Syntax, below.

       mod-meter switch meter
              Modify an existing meter.

       del-meters switch
       del-meter switch [meter]
              Delete entries from switch's meter table.  meter can  specify  a
              single  meter  with  syntax  meter=id, or all meters with syntax
              meter=all.

       dump-meters switch
       dump-meter switch [meter]
              Print meter configuration.  meter can  specify  a  single  meter
              with syntax meter=id, or all meters with syntax meter=all.

       meter-stats switch [meter]
              Print  meter  statistics.  meter can specify a single meter with
              syntax meter=id, or all meters with syntax meter=all.

       meter-features switch
              Print meter features.

   OpenFlow Switch Flow Table Commands
       These commands manage the flow table in an OpenFlow  switch.   In  each
       case,  flow specifies a flow entry in the format described in Flow Syn‐
       tax, below, file is a text file that contains zero or more flows in the
       same  syntax,  one  per line, and the optional --bundle option operates
       the command as a single atomic transation, see option --bundle, below.

       [--bundle] add-flow switch flow
       [--bundle] add-flow switch - < file
       [--bundle] add-flows switch file
              Add each flow entry to switch's tables.  Each flow specification
              (e.g.,  each  line  in file) may start with add, modify, delete,
              modify_strict, or delete_strict keyword  to  specify  whether  a
              flow  is to be added, modified, or deleted, and whether the mod‐
              ify or delete is strict or not.  For backwards  compatibility  a
              flow specification without one of these keywords is treated as a
              flow add.  All flow mods are executed in the order specified.

       [--bundle] [--strict] mod-flows switch flow
       [--bundle] [--strict] mod-flows switch - < file
              Modify the actions in entries from switch's  tables  that  match
              the  specified  flows.  With --strict, wildcards are not treated
              as active for matching purposes.

       [--bundle] del-flows switch
       [--bundle] [--strict] del-flows switch [flow]
       [--bundle] [--strict] del-flows switch - < file
              Deletes entries from switch's flow table.  With  only  a  switch
              argument,  deletes  all  flows.  Otherwise, deletes flow entries
              that match the specified flows.  With  --strict,  wildcards  are
              not treated as active for matching purposes.

       [--bundle] [--readd] replace-flows switch file
              Reads flow entries from file (or stdin if file is -) and queries
              the flow table from switch.  Then it fixes up  any  differences,
              adding  flows  from  flow  that  are missing on switch, deleting
              flows from switch that are not in file, and  updating  flows  in
              switch whose actions, cookie, or timeouts differ in file.

              With --readd, ovs-ofctl adds all the flows from file, even those
              that exist with the same actions, cookie, and timeout in switch.
              This  resets  all  the flow packet and byte counters to 0, which
              can be useful for debugging.

       diff-flows source1 source2
              Reads flow entries from source1 and source2 and prints the  dif‐
              ferences.   A  flow  that  is  in  source1 but not in source2 is
              printed preceded by a -, and a flow that is in source2  but  not
              in source1 is printed preceded by a +.  If a flow exists in both
              source1 and source2 with different actions, cookie, or timeouts,
              then  both  versions  are  printed  preceded by - and +, respec‐
              tively.

              source1 and source2 may each name a file or a switch.  If a name
              begins  with / or ., then it is considered to be a file name.  A
              name that contains : is considered to be a  switch.   Otherwise,
              it is a file if a file by that name exists, a switch if not.

              For  this command, an exit status of 0 means that no differences
              were found, 1 means that an error occurred,  and  2  means  that
              some differences were found.

       packet-out switch packet-out
              Connects  to  switch  and instructs it to execute the packet-out
              OpenFlow message, specified as defined in Packet-Out Syntax sec‐
              tion.

   OpenFlow Switch Group Table Commands
       These  commands  manage the group table in an OpenFlow switch.  In each
       case, group specifies a group entry in the format  described  in  Group
       Syntax,  below,  and  file  is  a  text file that contains zero or more
       groups in the same syntax, one per  line,  and  the  optional  --bundle
       option  operates  the command as a single atomic transation, see option
       --bundle, below.


       [--bundle] add-group switch group
       [--bundle] add-group switch - < file
       [--bundle] add-groups switch file
              Add each group entry to switch's tables.  Each group  specifica‐
              tion  (e.g.,  each  line  in  file)  may start with add, modify,
              add_or_mod, delete, insert_bucket, or remove_bucket  keyword  to
              specify  whether a flow is to be added, modified, or deleted, or
              whether a group bucket is to be added or removed.  For backwards
              compatibility  a  group  specification without one of these key‐
              words is treated as a group add.  All group mods are executed in
              the order specified.

       [--bundle] [--may-create] mod-group switch group
       [--bundle] [--may-create] mod-group switch - < file
              Modify  the  action  buckets in entries from switch's tables for
              each group entry.  If a specified group does not already  exist,
              then  without  --may-create,  this  command  has no effect; with
              --may-create, it creates a new group.  The  --may-create  option
              uses  an  Open vSwitch extension to OpenFlow only implemented in
              Open vSwitch 2.6 and later.

       [--bundle] del-groups switch
       [--bundle] del-groups switch [group]
       [--bundle] del-groups switch - < file
              Deletes entries from switch's group table.  With only  a  switch
              argument,  deletes all groups.  Otherwise, deletes the group for
              each group entry.

       [--bundle] insert-buckets switch group
       [--bundle] insert-buckets switch - < file
              Add buckets to an existing group present in the  switch's  group
              table.  If no command_bucket_id is present in the group specifi‐
              cation then all buckets of the group are removed.

       [--bundle] remove-buckets switch group
       [--bundle] remove-buckets switch - < file
              Remove buckets to an existing  group  present  in  the  switch's
              group  table.   If  no command_bucket_id is present in the group
              specification then all buckets of the group are removed.

   OpenFlow Switch Bundle Command
       Transactional updates to both flow and group tables can  be  made  with
       the  bundle  command.   file  is a text file that contains zero or more
       flow mods, group mods, or packet-outs in Flow Syntax, Group Syntax,  or
       Packet-Out  Syntax,  each  line  preceded by flow, group, or packet-out
       keyword, correspondingly.  The flow keyword may be optionally  followed
       by   one  of  the  keywords  add,  modify,  modify_strict,  delete,  or
       delete_strict, of which the add is assumed if a  bare  flow  is  given.
       Similarly,  the  group keyword may be optionally followed by one of the
       keywords   add,   modify,   add_or_mod,   delete,   insert_bucket,   or
       remove_bucket, of which the add is assumed if a bare group is given.

       bundle switch file
              Execute  all  flow  and  group  mods  in file as a single atomic
              transaction against switch's tables.  All bundled mods are  exe‐
              cuted in the order specified.

   OpenFlow Switch Tunnel TLV Table Commands
       Open  vSwitch  maintains  a  mapping  table  between tunnel option TLVs
       (defined by <class, type, length>) and NXM fields tun_metadatan,  where
       n  ranges  from  0  to  63, that can be operated on for the purposes of
       matches, actions, etc. This TLV table can be  used  for  Geneve  option
       TLVs  or  other  protocols  with  options  in same TLV format as Geneve
       options. This mapping must be explicitly specified by the user  through
       the following commands.

       A      TLV     mapping     is     specified     with     the     syntax
       {class=class,type=type,len=length}->tun_metadatan.  When an option map‐
       ping  exists  for  a given tun_metadatan, matching on the defined field
       becomes possible, e.g.:

              ovs-ofctl                    add-tlv-map                     br0
              "{class=0xffff,type=0,len=4}->tun_metadata0"

              ovs-ofctl add-flow br0 tun_metadata0=1234,actions=controller

       A  mapping  should  not be changed while it is in active use by a flow.
       The result of doing so is undefined.

       These commands are Nicira  extensions  to  OpenFlow  and  require  Open
       vSwitch 2.5 or later.


       add-tlv-map switch option[,option]...
              Add  each  option  to  switch's  tables.  Duplicate  fields  are
              rejected.

       del-tlv-map switch [option[,option]]...
              Delete each option from switch's table, or all option  TLV  map‐
              ping  if  no option is specified.  Fields that aren't mapped are
              ignored.

       dump-tlv-map switch
              Show the currently mapped fields in the switch's option table as
              well as switch capabilities.

   OpenFlow Switch Monitoring Commands
       snoop switch
              Connects  to  switch and prints to the console all OpenFlow mes‐
              sages received.  Unlike other ovs-ofctl commands, if  switch  is
              the  name of a bridge, then the snoop command connects to a Unix
              domain socket named /usr/local/var/run/openvswitch/switch.snoop.
              ovs-vswitchd  listens on such a socket for each bridge and sends
              to it all of the OpenFlow messages sent to or received from  its
              configured  OpenFlow controller.  Thus, this command can be used
              to view OpenFlow protocol activity between a switch and its con‐
              troller.

              When  a switch has more than one controller configured, only the
              traffic to and from a single controller is output.  If  none  of
              the  controllers  is  configured as a master or a slave (using a
              Nicira extension to OpenFlow 1.0 or 1.1, or a  standard  request
              in OpenFlow 1.2 or later), then a controller is chosen arbitrar‐
              ily among them.  If there is a master controller, it is  chosen;
              otherwise,  if there are any controllers that are not masters or
              slaves, one is chosen arbitrarily; otherwise, a slave controller
              is  chosen  arbitrarily.  This choice is made once at connection
              time and does not change as controllers reconfigure their roles.

              If a switch has no controller configured, or if  the  configured
              controller  is  disconnected,  no traffic is sent, so monitoring
              will not show any traffic.

       monitor switch [miss-len] [invalid_ttl] [watch:[spec...]]
              Connects to switch and prints to the console all  OpenFlow  mes‐
              sages  received.   Usually,  switch should specify the name of a
              bridge in the ovs-vswitchd database.

              If miss-len is provided, ovs-ofctl sends an OpenFlow ``set  con‐
              figuration''  message  at  connection  setup  time that requests
              miss-len bytes of each packet that misses the flow table.   Open
              vSwitch  does  not send these and other asynchronous messages to
              an ovs-ofctl monitor client connection unless a nonzero value is
              specified  on  this  argument.  (Thus, if miss-len is not speci‐
              fied, very little traffic will ordinarily be printed.)

              If invalid_ttl is passed, ovs-ofctl sends an OpenFlow ``set con‐
              figuration''  message  at  connection  setup  time that requests
              INVALID_TTL_TO_CONTROLLER, so that ovs-ofctl monitor can receive
              ``packet-in''  messages when TTL reaches zero on dec_ttl action.
              Only OpenFlow 1.1 and 1.2 support invalid_ttl; Open vSwitch also
              implements it for OpenFlow 1.0 as an extension.

              watch:[spec...]  causes  ovs-ofctl to send a ``monitor request''
              Nicira extension message to the switch at connection setup time.
              This  message  causes  the switch to send information about flow
              table changes as they occur.  The following comma-separated spec
              syntax is available:

              !initial
                     Do not report the switch's initial flow table contents.

              !add   Do not report newly added flows.

              !delete
                     Do not report deleted flows.

              !modify
                     Do not report modifications to existing flows.

              !own   Abbreviate  changes made to the flow table by ovs-ofctl's
                     own connection to the switch.  (These  could  only  occur
                     using  the  ofctl/send command described below under RUN‐
                     TIME MANAGEMENT COMMANDS.)

              !actions
                     Do not report actions as part of flow updates.

              table=number
                     Limits the monitoring to the table with the given  number
                     between 0 and 254.  By default, all tables are monitored.

              out_port=port
                     If  set,  only  flows  that output to port are monitored.
                     The port may be an OpenFlow port number or keyword  (e.g.
                     LOCAL).

              field=value
                     Monitors  only  flows  that  have  field specified as the
                     given value.  Any syntax valid for matching on dump-flows
                     may be used.

              This  command  may  be useful for debugging switch or controller
              implementations.  With watch:, it  is  particularly  useful  for
              observing how a controller updates flow tables.

   OpenFlow Switch and Controller Commands
       The  following  commands,  like  those  in the previous section, may be
       applied to OpenFlow switches,  using  any  of  the  connection  methods
       described  in  that  section.  Unlike those commands, these may also be
       applied to OpenFlow controllers.

       probe target
              Sends a single OpenFlow echo-request message to target and waits
              for the response.  With the -t or --timeout option, this command
              can test whether an OpenFlow switch or controller is up and run‐
              ning.

       ping target [n]
              Sends  a  series  of 10 echo request packets to target and times
              each reply.  The echo request packets  consist  of  an  OpenFlow
              header plus n bytes (default: 64) of randomly generated payload.
              This measures the latency of individual requests.

       benchmark target n count
              Sends count echo request packets that each consist of  an  Open‐
              Flow header plus n bytes of payload and waits for each response.
              Reports the total time required.  This is a measure of the maxi‐
              mum bandwidth to target for round-trips of n-byte messages.

   Other Commands
       ofp-parse file
              Reads  file (or stdin if file is -) as a series of OpenFlow mes‐
              sages in the binary format used on an OpenFlow  connection,  and
              prints  them  to  the  console.  This can be useful for printing
              OpenFlow messages captured from a TCP stream.

       ofp-parse-pcap file [port...]
              Reads file, which must be in the PCAP  format  used  by  network
              capture tools such as tcpdump or wireshark, extracts all the TCP
              streams for OpenFlow connections, and prints the  OpenFlow  mes‐
              sages in those connections in human-readable format on stdout.

              OpenFlow connections are distinguished by TCP port number.  Non-
              OpenFlow packets are ignored.  By default,  data  on  TCP  ports
              6633  and  6653  are  considered to be OpenFlow.  Specify one or
              more port arguments to override the default.

              This command cannot usefully print SSL  encrypted  traffic.   It
              does not understand IPv6.

   Flow Syntax
       Some  ovs-ofctl  commands  accept  an argument that describes a flow or
       flows.  Such flow descriptions comprise a series of field=value assign‐
       ments,  separated  by  commas or white space.  (Embedding spaces into a
       flow description normally requires quoting to prevent  the  shell  from
       breaking the description into multiple arguments.)

       Flow descriptions should be in normal form.  This means that a flow may
       only specify a value for an L3 field if it also specifies a  particular
       L2  protocol,  and  that a flow may only specify an L4 field if it also
       specifies particular L2 and L3 protocol types.  For example, if the  L2
       protocol type dl_type is wildcarded, then L3 fields nw_src, nw_dst, and
       nw_proto must also be wildcarded.  Similarly, if  dl_type  or  nw_proto
       (the  L3 protocol type) is wildcarded, so must be the L4 fields tcp_dst
       and tcp_src.  ovs-ofctl will warn about flows not in normal form.

       ovs-fields(7) describes the supported fields and how to match them.  In
       addition  to  match fields, commands that operate on flows accept a few
       additional key-value pairs:

       table=number
              For flow dump commands, limits the flows dumped to those in  the
              table with the given number between 0 and 254.  If not specified
              (or if 255 is specified as number), then flows in all tables are
              dumped.

              For  flow  table modification commands, behavior varies based on
              the OpenFlow version used to connect to the switch:

              OpenFlow 1.0
                     OpenFlow 1.0 does not support table for modifying  flows.
                     ovs-ofctl  will  exit  with an error if table (other than
                     table=255) is specified for a switch that  only  supports
                     OpenFlow 1.0.

                     In  OpenFlow 1.0, the switch chooses the table into which
                     to insert a new flow.  The Open vSwitch  software  switch
                     always chooses table 0.  Other Open vSwitch datapaths and
                     other  OpenFlow  implementations  may  choose   different
                     tables.

                     The  OpenFlow  1.0 behavior in Open vSwitch for modifying
                     or removing flows depends on whether  --strict  is  used.
                     Without  --strict,  the command applies to matching flows
                     in all tables.  With --strict, the command  will  operate
                     on  any  single  matching  flow  in any table; it will do
                     nothing if there are matches  in  more  than  one  table.
                     (The  distinction between these behaviors only matters if
                     non-OpenFlow 1.0 commands were also used,  because  Open‐
                     Flow  1.0  alone  cannot add flows with the same matching
                     criteria to multiple tables.)

              OpenFlow 1.0 with table_id extension
                     Open vSwitch implements an OpenFlow extension that allows
                     the  controller to specify the table on which to operate.
                     ovs-ofctl automatically enables the extension when  table
                     is  specified  and OpenFlow 1.0 is used.  ovs-ofctl auto‐
                     matically detects whether the switch supports the  exten‐
                     sion.   As  of this writing, this extension is only known
                     to be implemented by Open vSwitch.

                     With this extension, ovs-ofctl operates on the  requested
                     table  when table is specified, and acts as described for
                     OpenFlow 1.0 above when no table is specified (or for ta‐
                     ble=255).

              OpenFlow 1.1
                     OpenFlow 1.1 requires flow table modification commands to
                     specify a table.  When table is  not  specified  (or  ta‐
                     ble=255 is specified), ovs-ofctl defaults to table 0.

              OpenFlow 1.2 and later
                     OpenFlow  1.2 and later allow flow deletion commands, but
                     not other flow table modification commands, to operate on
                     all  flow  tables,  with the behavior described above for
                     OpenFlow 1.0.

       duration=...
       n_packet=...
       n_bytes=...
              ovs-ofctl ignores assignments to these ``fields'' to allow  out‐
              put  from  the  dump-flows command to be used as input for other
              commands that parse flows.

       The add-flow, add-flows, and mod-flows commands require  an  additional
       field, which must be the final field specified:

       actions=[action][,action...]
              Specifies  a comma-separated list of actions to take on a packet
              when the flow entry matches.  If no action  is  specified,  then
              packets  matching  the flow are dropped.  The following forms of
              action are supported:

              port
              output:port
                     Outputs the packet to OpenFlow port number port.  If port
                     is the packet's input port, the packet is not output.

              output:src[start..end]
                     Outputs  the packet to the OpenFlow port number read from
                     src, which may be an NXM field name, as described  above,
                     or  a  match  field name.  output:reg0[16..31] outputs to
                     the OpenFlow port number written in  the  upper  half  of
                     register  0.   If  the  port number is the packet's input
                     port, the packet is not output.

                     This form of output was  added  in  Open  vSwitch  1.3.0.
                     This  form  of  output uses an OpenFlow extension that is
                     not supported by standard OpenFlow switches.

              output(port=port,max_len=nbytes)
                     Outputs the packet to the OpenFlow port number read  from
                     port,  with  maximum packet size set to nbytes.  port may
                     be OpenFlow port number, local, or in_port.   Patch  port
                     is  not  supported.   Packets  larger than nbytes will be
                     trimmed to  nbytes  while  packets  smaller  than  nbytes
                     remains the original size.

              group:group_id
                     Outputs the packet to the OpenFlow group group_id.  Open‐
                     Flow 1.1 introduced support for groups; Open vSwitch  2.6
                     and  later also supports output to groups as an extension
                     to OpenFlow 1.0.  See Group Syntax for more details.

              normal Subjects the packet to the device's normal L2/L3 process‐
                     ing.   (This  action  is  not implemented by all OpenFlow
                     switches.)

              flood  Outputs the packet on all  switch  physical  ports  other
                     than  the  port on which it was received and any ports on
                     which flooding is disabled  (typically,  these  would  be
                     ports  disabled  by  the IEEE 802.1D spanning tree proto‐
                     col).

              all    Outputs the packet on all  switch  physical  ports  other
                     than the port on which it was received.

              local  Outputs  the  packet  on the ``local port,'' which corre‐
                     sponds to the network device that has the  same  name  as
                     the bridge.

              in_port
                     Outputs  the  packet  on  the  port  from  which  it  was
                     received.

              controller(key=value...)
                     Sends the packet and its metadata to  the  OpenFlow  con‐
                     troller  as  a ``packet in'' message.  The supported key-
                     value pairs are:

                     max_len=nbytes
                            Limit to nbytes the number of bytes of the  packet
                            to  send to the controller.  By default the entire
                            packet is sent.

                     reason=reason
                            Specify reason as the reason for sending the  mes‐
                            sage  in the ``packet in'' message.  The supported
                            reasons are action (the  default),  no_match,  and
                            invalid_ttl.

                     id=controller-id
                            Specify  controller-id,  a  16-bit integer, as the
                            connection ID of the OpenFlow controller  or  con‐
                            trollers to which the ``packet in'' message should
                            be sent.  The default is zero.  Zero is  also  the
                            default  connection ID for each controller connec‐
                            tion, and a given controller connection will  only
                            have  a  nonzero  connection  ID if its controller
                            uses the NXT_SET_CONTROLLER_ID Nicira extension to
                            OpenFlow.

                     userdata=hh...
                            Supplies the bytes represented as hex digits hh as
                            additional data to the controller in the packet-in
                            message.   Pairs of hex digits may be separated by
                            periods for readability.

                     pause  Causes the switch  to  freeze  the  packet's  trip
                            through  Open  vSwitch  flow tables and serializes
                            that state into the packet-in message as a  ``con‐
                            tinuation,''   an   additional   property  in  the
                            NXT_PACKET_IN2 message.  The controller can  later
                            send  the  continuation  back  to the switch in an
                            NXT_RESUME  message,  which   will   restart   the
                            packet's  traversal  from  the  point where it was
                            interrupted.  This permits an OpenFlow  controller
                            to interpose on a packet midway through processing
                            in Open vSwitch.

                     If any reason other  than  action  or  any  nonzero  con‐
                     troller-id is supplied, Open vSwitch extension NXAST_CON‐
                     TROLLER, supported by Open  vSwitch  1.6  and  later,  is
                     used.   If  userdata is supplied, then NXAST_CONTROLLER2,
                     supported by Open vSwitch 2.6 and later, is used.

              controller
              controller[:nbytes]
                     Shorthand for controller() or controller(max_len=nbytes),
                     respectively.

              enqueue(port,queue)
                     Enqueues  the  packet  on the specified queue within port
                     port, which must be an OpenFlow port  number  or  keyword
                     (e.g.  LOCAL).  The number of supported queues depends on
                     the switch; some OpenFlow implementations do not  support
                     queuing at all.

              drop   Discards the packet, so no further processing or forward‐
                     ing takes place.  If a drop  action  is  used,  no  other
                     actions may be specified.

              mod_vlan_vid:vlan_vid
                     Modifies  the VLAN id on a packet.  The VLAN tag is added
                     or modified as necessary to match  the  value  specified.
                     If the VLAN tag is added, a priority of zero is used (see
                     the mod_vlan_pcp action to set this).

              mod_vlan_pcp:vlan_pcp
                     Modifies the VLAN priority on a packet.  The VLAN tag  is
                     added  or modified as necessary to match the value speci‐
                     fied.  Valid values are between 0 (lowest) and  7  (high‐
                     est).   If  the  VLAN tag is added, a vid of zero is used
                     (see the mod_vlan_vid action to set this).

              strip_vlan
                     Strips the VLAN tag from a packet if it is present.

              push_vlan:ethertype
                     Push a new VLAN tag onto the packet.  Ethertype  is  used
                     as  the  Ethertype  for  the  tag.  Only ethertype 0x8100
                     should be used. (0x88a8 which the spec allows isn't  sup‐
                     ported at the moment.)  A priority of zero and the tag of
                     zero are used for the new tag.

              push_mpls:ethertype
                     Changes the packet's Ethertype to ethertype,  which  must
                     be either 0x8847 or 0x8848, and pushes an MPLS LSE.

                     If  the  packet  does not already contain any MPLS labels
                     then an initial label stack entry is pushed.   The  label
                     stack  entry's label is 2 if the packet contains IPv6 and
                     0 otherwise, its default traffic control value is the low
                     3 bits of the packet's DSCP value (0 if the packet is not
                     IP), and its TTL is copied from the IP  TTL  (64  if  the
                     packet is not IP).

                     If  the packet does already contain an MPLS label, pushes
                     a new outermost label as a copy of the existing outermost
                     label.

                     A  limitation of the implementation is that processing of
                     actions will stop if push_mpls follows another  push_mpls
                     unless there is a pop_mpls in between.

              pop_mpls:ethertype
                     Strips  the  outermost MPLS label stack entry.  Currently
                     the implementation  restricts  ethertype  to  a  non-MPLS
                     Ethertype  and  thus  pop_mpls  should only be applied to
                     packets with an MPLS label stack depth of one. A  further
                     limitation  is  that  processing  of actions will stop if
                     pop_mpls follows  another  pop_mpls  unless  there  is  a
                     push_mpls in between.

              mod_dl_src:mac
                     Sets the source Ethernet address to mac.

              mod_dl_dst:mac
                     Sets the destination Ethernet address to mac.

              mod_nw_src:ip
                     Sets the IPv4 source address to ip.

              mod_nw_dst:ip
                     Sets the IPv4 destination address to ip.

              mod_tp_src:port
                     Sets the TCP or UDP or SCTP source port to port.

              mod_tp_dst:port
                     Sets the TCP or UDP or SCTP destination port to port.

              mod_nw_tos:tos
                     Sets  the  DSCP bits in the IPv4 ToS/DSCP or IPv6 traffic
                     class field to tos, which must be a multiple of 4 between
                     0  and  255.   This  action does not modify the two least
                     significant bits of the ToS field (the ECN bits).

              mod_nw_ecn:ecn
                     Sets the ECN bits in the IPv4 ToS or IPv6  traffic  class
                     field  to  ecn,  which  must  be a value between 0 and 3,
                     inclusive.  This action does not modify the six most sig‐
                     nificant bits of the field (the DSCP bits).

                     Requires OpenFlow 1.1 or later.

              mod_nw_ttl:ttl
                     Sets  the  IPv4 TTL or IPv6 hop limit field to ttl, which
                     is specified as a  decimal  number  between  0  and  255,
                     inclusive.   Switch  behavior when setting ttl to zero is
                     not well specified, though.

                     Requires OpenFlow 1.1 or later.

              The following actions are Nicira vendor extensions that,  as  of
              this writing, are only known to be implemented by Open vSwitch:

              resubmit:port
              resubmit([port],[table])
              resubmit([port],[table],ct)
                     Re-searches  this OpenFlow flow table (or the table whose
                     number is specified by  table)  with  the  in_port  field
                     replaced  by  port  (if port is specified) and the packet
                     5-tuple fields swapped with the  corresponding  conntrack
                     original  direction tuple fields (if ct is specified, see
                     ct_nw_src above), and executes the actions found, if any,
                     in addition to any other actions in this flow entry.  The
                     in_port and swapped 5-tuple fields are  restored  immedi‐
                     ately after the search, before any actions are executed.

                     The  ct option requires a valid connection tracking state
                     as a match prerequisite in the flow where this action  is
                     placed.   Examples  of  valid  connection  tracking state
                     matches     include     ct_state=+new,     ct_state=+est,
                     ct_state=+rel, and ct_state=+trk-inv.

                     Recursive  resubmit  actions are obeyed up to implementa‐
                     tion-defined limits:

                     ·      Open vSwitch 1.0.1 and  earlier  did  not  support
                            recursion.

                     ·      Open  vSwitch 1.0.2 and 1.0.3 limited recursion to
                            8 levels.

                     ·      Open vSwitch 1.1 and 1.2 limited recursion  to  16
                            levels.

                     ·      Open  vSwitch 1.2 through 1.8 limited recursion to
                            32 levels.

                     ·      Open vSwitch 1.9 through 2.0 limited recursion  to
                            64 levels.

                     ·      Open  vSwitch 2.1 through 2.5 limited recursion to
                            64 levels and impose a total limit of 4,096 resub‐
                            mits  per  flow  translation (earlier versions did
                            not impose any total limit).

                     ·      Open vSwitch 2.6 and later imposes the same limits
                            as  2.5, with one exception: resubmit from table x
                            to any table y > x  does  not  count  against  the
                            recursion limit.

                     Open  vSwitch  before 1.2.90 did not support table.  Open
                     vSwitch before 2.7 did not support ct.

              set_tunnel:id
              set_tunnel64:id
                     If outputting to a port that encapsulates the packet in a
                     tunnel and supports an identifier (such as GRE), sets the
                     identifier to id.  If the set_tunnel form is used and  id
                     fits  in 32 bits, then this uses an action extension that
                     is supported by Open vSwitch 1.0 and  later.   Otherwise,
                     if  id is a 64-bit value, it requires Open vSwitch 1.1 or
                     later.

              set_queue:queue
                     Sets the queue that should be used to queue when  packets
                     are  output.   The  number of supported queues depends on
                     the switch; some OpenFlow implementations do not  support
                     queuing at all.

              pop_queue
                     Restores  the  queue  to  the  value  it  was  before any
                     set_queue actions were applied.

              ct
              ct([argument][,argument...])
                     Send the packet through the connection tracker.  Refer to
                     the  ct_state documentation above for possible packet and
                     connection states. The following arguments are supported:


                     commit
                            Commit the connection to the  connection  tracking
                            module.  Information  about the connection will be
                            stored beyond the lifetime of the  packet  in  the
                            pipeline.   Some ct_state flags are only available
                            for committed connections.

                     force
                            A committed connection always has the directional‐
                            ity of the packet that caused the connection to be
                            committed in the first place.  This is the ``orig‐
                            inal  direction'' of the connection, and the oppo‐
                            site direction is the ``reply direction''.   If  a
                            connection  is already committed, but it is in the
                            wrong direction, force flag may be used  in  addi‐
                            tion  to  commit flag to effectively terminate the
                            existing connection and start a  new  one  in  the
                            current direction.  This flag has no effect if the
                            original direction of the  connection  is  already
                            the same as that of the current packet.

                     table=number
                            Fork  pipeline  processing  in  two.  The original
                            instance of the packet  will  continue  processing
                            the  current  actions list as an untracked packet.
                            An additional instance of the packet will be  sent
                            to  the  connection  tracker,  which  will  be re-
                            injected into the OpenFlow pipeline to resume pro‐
                            cessing  in  table  number,  with the ct_state and
                            other ct match fields set. If  the  table  is  not
                            specified,  then  the packet which is submitted to
                            the connection tracker is not re-injected into the
                            OpenFlow  pipeline.  It is strongly recommended to
                            specify a table later than the  current  table  to
                            prevent loops.

                     zone=value
                     zone=src[start..end]
                            A  16-bit  context  id that can be used to isolate
                            connections into separate domains, allowing  over‐
                            lapping network addresses in different zones. If a
                            zone is not provided, then the default is  to  use
                            zone  zero. The zone may be specified either as an
                            immediate 16-bit value, or may be provided from an
                            NXM  field  src. The start and end pair are inclu‐
                            sive, and must specify a 16-bit range  within  the
                            field.  This  value is copied to the ct_zone match
                            field for packets which are re-injected  into  the
                            pipeline using the table option.

                     exec([action][,action...])
                            Perform  actions  within the context of connection
                            tracking. This is  a  restricted  set  of  actions
                            which  are  in the same format as their specifica‐
                            tions as part of a flow. Only actions which modify
                            the ct_mark or ct_label fields are accepted within
                            the exec action, and these fields may only be mod‐
                            ified with this option. For example:

                            set_field:value[/mask]->ct_mark
                                   Store a 32-bit metadata value with the con‐
                                   nection.  Subsequent lookups for packets in
                                   this  connection  will populate the ct_mark
                                   flow field when the packet is sent  to  the
                                   connection  tracker  with  the table speci‐
                                   fied.

                            set_field:value[/mask]->ct_label
                                   Store a 128-bit  metadata  value  with  the
                                   connection.  Subsequent lookups for packets
                                   in  this  connection  will   populate   the
                                   ct_label flow field when the packet is sent
                                   to the connection tracker  with  the  table
                                   specified.

                            The  commit  parameter  must  be  specified to use
                            exec(...).

                     alg=alg
                            Specify application layer  gateway  alg  to  track
                            specific  connection  types. If subsequent related
                            connections are sent through the ct  action,  then
                            the  rel  flag  in the ct_state field will be set.
                            Supported types include:

                            ftp    Look for negotiation of  FTP  data  connec‐
                                   tions.  Specify this option for FTP control
                                   connections to detect related data  connec‐
                                   tions  and  populate  the  rel flag for the
                                   data connections.

                            tftp   Look for negotiation of TFTP  data  connec‐
                                   tions. Specify this option for TFTP control
                                   connections to detect related data  connec‐
                                   tions  and  populate  the  rel flag for the
                                   data connections.

                            The commit parameter  must  be  specified  to  use
                            alg=alg.

                            When  committing  related connections, the ct_mark
                            for that connection is inherited from the  current
                            ct_mark  stored  with the original connection (ie,
                            the connection created by ct(alg=...)).

                            Note that with the Linux datapath,  global  sysctl
                            options affect the usage of the ct action. In par‐
                            ticular, if  net.netfilter.nf_conntrack_helper  is
                            enabled then application layer gateway helpers may
                            be executed even if the alg option is  not  speci‐
                            fied. This is the default setting until Linux 4.7.
                            For security reasons, the  netfilter  team  recom‐
                            mends  users to disable this option. See this blog
                            post  for  further   details:   http://www.netfil‐
                            ter.org/news.html#2012-04-03

                     nat[((src|dst)=addr1[-addr2][:port1[-port2]][,flags])]
                            Specify  address and port translation for the con‐
                            nection being tracked.  For new connections either
                            src  or  dst  argument  must be provided to set up
                            either source address/port translation  (SNAT)  or
                            destination   address/port   translation   (DNAT),
                            respectively.  Setting up address translation  for
                            a  new  connection takes effect only if the commit
                            flag is also provided for the enclosing ct action.
                            A  bare  nat action will only translate the packet
                            being processed in the way the connection has been
                            set  up  with  an  earlier  ct action.  Also a nat
                            action with src or dst, when applied to  a  packet
                            belonging to an established (rather than new) con‐
                            nection, will behave the same as a bare nat.

                            src and dst options take the following arguments:

                            addr1[-addr2]
                                   The address range from which the translated
                                   address  should  be  selected.  If only one
                                   address is given, then  that  address  will
                                   always  be  selected, otherwise the address
                                   selection can be informed by  the  optional
                                   persistent flag as described below.  Either
                                   IPv4 or IPv6 addresses can be provided, but
                                   both  addresses  must  be of the same type,
                                   and the datapath behavior is  undefined  in
                                   case of providing IPv4 address range for an
                                   IPv6 packet, or IPv6 address range  for  an
                                   IPv4 packet.  IPv6 addresses must be brack‐
                                   eted with '[' and ']' if a  port  range  is
                                   also given.

                            port1[-port2]
                                   The  port  range  from which the translated
                                   port should be selected.  If only one  port
                                   number  is  provided,  then  that should be
                                   selected.  In case of  a  mapping  conflict
                                   the  datapath may choose any other non-con‐
                                   flicting port number instead, even when  no
                                   port  range  is specified.  The port number
                                   selection can be informed by  the  optional
                                   random and hash flags as described below.

                            The optional flags are:

                            random The  selection  of  the port from the given
                                   range should be done using a  fresh  random
                                   number.   This  flag  is mutually exclusive
                                   with hash.

                            hash   The selection of the port  from  the  given
                                   range  should be done using a datapath spe‐
                                   cific hash of the packet's IP addresses and
                                   the  other,  non-mapped  port number.  This
                                   flag is mutually exclusive with random.

                            persistent
                                   The selection of the IP  address  from  the
                                   given range should be done so that the same
                                   mapping can be provided  after  the  system
                                   restarts.

                            If  an  alg  is  specified  for  the committing ct
                            action that also includes nat with a  src  or  dst
                            attribute,  then  the datapath tries to set up the
                            helper to be NAT  aware.   This  functionality  is
                            datapath  specific and may not be supported by all
                            datapaths.

                            nat was introduced in Open vSwitch 2.6.  The first
                            datapath that implements ct nat support is the one
                            that ships with Linux 4.6.

                     The ct action may be used as  a  primitive  to  construct
                     stateful  firewalls  by selectively committing some traf‐
                     fic, then matching the ct_state to allow established con‐
                     nections  while  denying  new  connections. The following
                     flows provide an example of how  to  implement  a  simple
                     firewall  that allows new connections from port 1 to port
                     2, and only allows established connections to send  traf‐
                     fic from port 2 to port 1:
                         table=0,priority=1,action=drop
                         table=0,priority=10,arp,action=normal
                         table=0,priority=100,ip,ct_state=-trk,action=ct(ta‐
                     ble=1)
                         table=1,in_port=1,ip,ct_state=+trk+new,action=ct(com‐
                     mit),2
                         table=1,in_port=1,ip,ct_state=+trk+est,action=2
                         table=1,in_port=2,ip,ct_state=+trk+new,action=drop
                         table=1,in_port=2,ip,ct_state=+trk+est,action=1

                     If  ct  is  executed  on IP (or IPv6) fragments, then the
                     message is implicitly reassembled before sending  to  the
                     connection  tracker  and refragmented upon output, to the
                     original  maximum  received  fragment  size.   Reassembly
                     occurs  within  the  context of the zone, meaning that IP
                     fragments in different zones are not assembled  together.
                     Pipeline  processing for the initial fragments is halted;
                     When the final  fragment  is  received,  the  message  is
                     assembled  and pipeline processing will continue for that
                     flow.  Because packet ordering is not  guaranteed  by  IP
                     protocols, it is not possible to determine which IP frag‐
                     ment will cause message reassembly  (and  therefore  con‐
                     tinue  pipeline processing). As such, it is strongly rec‐
                     ommended that multiple flows should  not  execute  ct  to
                     reassemble fragments from the same IP message.

                     Currently, connection tracking is only available on Linux
                     kernels with  the  nf_conntrack  module  loaded.  The  ct
                     action was introduced in Open vSwitch 2.5.

              ct_clear
                     Clears  connection  tracking state from the flow, zeroing
                     ct_state, ct_zone, ct_mark, and ct_label.

                     This action was introduced in Open vSwitch 2.6.90.

              dec_ttl
              dec_ttl(id1[,id2]...)
                     Decrement TTL of IPv4 packet or hop limit of IPv6 packet.
                     If the TTL or hop limit is initially zero or decrementing
                     would make it so, no decrement occurs, as packets  reach‐
                     ing  TTL zero must be rejected.  Instead, a ``packet-in''
                     message with reason code OFPR_INVALID_TTL is sent to each
                     connected  controller that has enabled receiving them, if
                     any.  Processing the current set of actions  then  stops.
                     However,  if  the  current  set  of  actions  was reached
                     through ``resubmit'' then remaining actions in outer lev‐
                     els resume processing.

                     This action also optionally supports the ability to spec‐
                     ify a list of valid controller ids.   Each  of  the  con‐
                     trollers  in the list will receive the ``packet_in'' mes‐
                     sage only if they have registered to receive the  invalid
                     ttl  packets.   If  controller ids are not specified, the
                     ``packet_in'' message will  be  sent  only  to  the  con‐
                     trollers  having controller id zero which have registered
                     for the invalid ttl packets.

              set_mpls_label:label
                     Set the label of the outer MPLS label stack  entry  of  a
                     packet.   label  should be a 20-bit value that is decimal
                     by default; use a 0x prefix to specify them in  hexadeci‐
                     mal.

              set_mpls_tc:tc
                     Set the traffic-class of the outer MPLS label stack entry
                     of a packet.  tc should be a in the range 0 to  7  inclu‐
                     sive.

              set_mpls_ttl:ttl
                     Set  the  TTL  of  the  outer MPLS label stack entry of a
                     packet.  ttl should be in the range 0 to 255 inclusive.

              dec_mpls_ttl
                     Decrement TTL of the outer MPLS label stack  entry  of  a
                     packet.   If  the  TTL  is initially zero or decrementing
                     would make  it  so,  no  decrement  occurs.   Instead,  a
                     ``packet-in''  message  with reason code OFPR_INVALID_TTL
                     is sent to the main  controller  (id  zero),  if  it  has
                     enabled  receiving  them.   Processing the current set of
                     actions then stops.   However,  if  the  current  set  of
                     actions  was  reached through ``resubmit'' then remaining
                     actions in outer levels resume processing.

              note:[hh]...
                     Does nothing at all.  Any number of bytes represented  as
                     hex  digits  hh may be included.  Pairs of hex digits may
                     be  separated  by  periods  for  readability.   The  note
                     action's  format  doesn't include an exact length for its
                     payload, so the provided bytes  will  be  padded  on  the
                     right by enough bytes with value 0 to make the total num‐
                     ber 6 more than a multiple of 8.

              move:src[start..end]->dst[start..end]
                     Copies the named bits from field src to field  dst.   src
                     and   dst   may   be   NXM  field  names  as  defined  in
                     nicira-ext.h, e.g. NXM_OF_UDP_SRC or  NXM_NX_REG0,  or  a
                     match  field  name,  e.g. reg0.  Each start and end pair,
                     which are inclusive, must specify the same number of bits
                     and must fit within its respective field.  Shorthands for
                     [start..end] exist: use [bit] to specify a single bit  or
                     []  to  specify  an  entire field (in the latter case the
                     brackets can also be left off).

                     Examples:     move:NXM_NX_REG0[0..5]->NXM_NX_REG1[26..31]
                     copies  the  six bits numbered 0 through 5, inclusive, in
                     register  0  into  bits   26   through   31,   inclusive;
                     move:reg0[0..15]->vlan_tci  copies  the least significant
                     16 bits of register 0 into the VLAN TCI field.

                     In OpenFlow 1.0 through 1.4, move ordinarily uses an Open
                     vSwitch  extension  to  OpenFlow.   In OpenFlow 1.5, move
                     uses the OpenFlow 1.5 standard  copy_field  action.   The
                     ONF has also made copy_field available as an extension to
                     OpenFlow 1.3.  Open vSwitch  2.4  and  later  understands
                     this  extension  and uses it if a controller uses it, but
                     for backward compatibility with older  versions  of  Open
                     vSwitch, ovs-ofctl does not use it.

              set_field:value[/mask]->dst
              load:value->dst[start..end]
                     Loads  a  literal  value into a field or part of a field.
                     With set_field, value and the optional mask are given  in
                     the customary syntax for field dst, which is expressed as
                     a        field        name.          For         example,
                     set_field:00:11:22:33:44:55->eth_src  sets  the  Ethernet
                     source address to 00:11:22:33:44:55.   With  load,  value
                     must  be  an  integer value (in decimal or prefixed by 0x
                     for hexadecimal) and dst can also be the NXM or OXM  name
                     for         the        field.         For        example,
                     load:0x001122334455->OXM_OF_ETH_SRC[] has the same effect
                     as the prior set_field example.

                     The two forms exist for historical reasons.  Open vSwitch
                     1.1 introduced NXAST_REG_LOAD as a  Nicira  extension  to
                     OpenFlow  1.0  and used load to express it.  Later, Open‐
                     Flow 1.2 introduced  a  standard  OFPAT_SET_FIELD  action
                     that  was  restricted  to  loading entire fields, so Open
                     vSwitch added the form set_field with  this  restriction.
                     OpenFlow  1.5  extended OFPAT_SET_FIELD to the point that
                     it became a superset  of  NXAST_REG_LOAD.   Open  vSwitch
                     translates  either  syntax  as necessary for the OpenFlow
                     version in use: in OpenFlow 1.0 and 1.1,  NXAST_REG_LOAD;
                     in OpenFlow 1.2, 1.3, and 1.4, NXAST_REG_LOAD for load or
                     for loading a subfield,  OFPAT_SET_FIELD  otherwise;  and
                     OpenFlow 1.5 and later, OFPAT_SET_FIELD.

              push:src[start..end]
                     Pushes  start  to end bits inclusive, in fields on top of
                     the stack.

                     Example: push:NXM_NX_REG2[0..5] or  push:reg2[0..5]  push
                     the  value  stored in register 2 bits 0 through 5, inclu‐
                     sive, on to the internal stack.

              pop:dst[start..end]
                     Pops from the top of the stack, retrieves  the  start  to
                     end  bits inclusive, from the value popped and store them
                     into the corresponding bits in dst.

                     Example: pop:NXM_NX_REG2[0..5] or pop:reg2[0..5] pops the
                     value  from  top  of  the  stack.   Set register 2 bits 0
                     through 5, inclusive, based on bits 0 through 5 from  the
                     value just popped.

              multipath(fields,     basis,     algorithm,     n_links,    arg,
              dst[start..end])
                     Hashes fields using basis as a universal hash  parameter,
                     then the applies multipath link selection algorithm (with
                     parameter arg) to choose one of n_links output links num‐
                     bered 0 through n_links minus 1, and stores the link into
                     dst[start..end], which must be an NXM field as  described
                     above.

                     fields must be one of the following:

                     eth_src
                            Hashes Ethernet source address only.

                     symmetric_l4
                            Hashes  Ethernet  source,  destination,  and type,
                            VLAN ID, IPv4/IPv6 source, destination, and proto‐
                            col,  and  TCP  or  SCTP (but not UDP) ports.  The
                            hash is computed so that  pairs  of  corresponding
                            flows in each direction hash to the same value, in
                            environments where L2 paths are the same  in  each
                            direction.  UDP ports are not included in the hash
                            to support protocols such as VXLAN that use  asym‐
                            metric ports in each direction.

                     symmetric_l3l4
                            Hashes  IPv4/IPv6  source, destination, and proto‐
                            col, and TCP or SCTP (but not  UDP)  ports.   Like
                            symmetric_l4,  this  is  a  symmetric hash, but by
                            excluding L2 headers it is more effective in envi‐
                            ronments  with  asymmetric  L2  paths  (e.g. paths
                            involving VRRP IP addresses on a router).  Not  an
                            effective  hash  function for protocols other than
                            IPv4 and IPv6, which hash to a constant zero.

                     symmetric_l3l4+udp
                            Like  symmetric_l3l4+udp,  but   UDP   ports   are
                            included  in  the  hash.  This is a more effective
                            hash when asymmetric UDP protocols such  as  VXLAN
                            are not a consideration.

                     algorithm  must  be one of modulo_n, hash_threshold, hrw,
                     and iter_hash.  Only the iter_hash algorithm uses arg.

                     Refer to nicira-ext.h for more details.

              bundle(fields, basis,  algorithm,  slave_type,  slaves:[s1,  s2,
              ...])
                     Hashes  fields using basis as a universal hash parameter,
                     then applies  the  bundle  link  selection  algorithm  to
                     choose   one   of   the   listed  slaves  represented  as
                     slave_type.  Currently the only supported  slave_type  is
                     ofport.   Thus,  each s1 through sN should be an OpenFlow
                     port number. Outputs to the selected slave.

                     Currently, fields must be either  eth_src,  symmetric_l4,
                     symmetric_l3l4, or symmetric_l3l4+udp, and algorithm must
                     be one of hrw and active_backup.

                     Example: bundle(eth_src,0,hrw,ofport,slaves:4,8) uses  an
                     Ethernet  source  hash  with  basis  0, to select between
                     OpenFlow ports 4 and 8 using the  Highest  Random  Weight
                     algorithm.

                     Refer to nicira-ext.h for more details.

              bundle_load(fields,      basis,      algorithm,      slave_type,
              dst[start..end], slaves:[s1, s2, ...])
                     Has the same behavior as  the  bundle  action,  with  one
                     exception.   Instead of outputting to the selected slave,
                     it writes its selection to dst[start..end], which must be
                     an NXM field as described above.

                     Example:    bundle_load(eth_src,    0,    hrw,    ofport,
                     NXM_NX_REG0[], slaves:4, 8) uses an Ethernet source  hash
                     with  basis  0,  to select between OpenFlow ports 4 and 8
                     using the Highest Random Weight algorithm, and writes the
                     selection  to  NXM_NX_REG0[].   Also the match field name
                     can be used, for example, instead  of  'NXM_NX_REG0'  the
                     name  'reg0'  can be used.  When the while field is indi‐
                     cated the empty brackets can also be left off.

                     Refer to nicira-ext.h for more details.

              learn(argument[,argument]...)
                     This action adds or modifies a flow in an OpenFlow table,
                     similar  to  ovs-ofctl --strict mod-flows.  The arguments
                     specify the flow's match fields, actions, and other prop‐
                     erties, as follows.  At least one match criterion and one
                     action argument should ordinarily be specified.

                     idle_timeout=seconds
                     hard_timeout=seconds
                     priority=value
                     cookie=value
                     send_flow_rem
                            These arguments have the same meaning  as  in  the
                            usual ovs-ofctl flow syntax.

                     fin_idle_timeout=seconds
                     fin_hard_timeout=seconds
                            Adds a fin_timeout action with the specified argu‐
                            ments to the new flow.  This feature was added  in
                            Open vSwitch 1.5.90.

                     table=number
                            The   table  in  which  the  new  flow  should  be
                            inserted.  Specify a decimal number between 0  and
                            254.  The default, if table is unspecified, is ta‐
                            ble 1.

                     delete_learned
                            This flag enables deletion of  the  learned  flows
                            when  the  flow  with the learn action is removed.
                            Specifically, when the last learn action with this
                            flag  and  particular  table  and cookie values is
                            removed, the switch deletes all of  the  flows  in
                            the specified table with the specified cookie.

                            This flag was added in Open vSwitch 2.4.

                     limit=number
                            If  the number of flows in table table with cookie
                            id cookie exceeds number, a new flow will  not  be
                            learned  by  this  action.   By default there's no
                            limit.

                            This flag was added in Open vSwitch 2.8.

                     result_dst=field[bit]
                            If learning failed (because the  number  of  flows
                            exceeds  limit),  the action sets field[bit] to 0,
                            otherwise it will be set to 1.  field[bit] must be
                            a single bit.

                            This flag was added in Open vSwitch 2.8.

                     field=value
                     field[start..end]=src[start..end]
                     field[start..end]
                            Adds a match criterion to the new flow.

                            The first form specifies that field must match the
                            literal value, e.g. dl_type=0x0800.   All  of  the
                            fields  and  values  for ovs-ofctl flow syntax are
                            available with their  usual  meanings.   Shorthand
                            notation   matchers   (e.g.   ip   in   place   of
                            dl_type=0x0800) are not currently implemented.

                            The second form specifies  that  field[start..end]
                            in  the  new flow must match src[start..end] taken
                            from the  flow  currently  being  processed.   For
                            example,  NXM_OF_UDP_DST[]=NXM_OF_UDP_SRC[]  on  a
                            TCP packet for which the UDP src port is 53,  cre‐
                            ates a flow which matches NXM_OF_UDP_DST[]=53.

                            The third form is a shorthand for the second form.
                            It specifies that  field[start..end]  in  the  new
                            flow  must  match the same field[start..end] taken
                            from the  flow  currently  being  processed.   For
                            example,  NXM_OF_TCP_DST[]  on  a  TCP  packet for
                            which the TCP dst port is 80, creates a flow which
                            matches NXM_OF_TCP_DST[]=80.

                     load:value->dst[start..end]
                     load:src[start..end]->dst[start..end]
                            Adds a load action to the new flow.

                            The  first  form loads the literal value into bits
                            start through end, inclusive, in field  dst.   Its
                            syntax  is  the  same as the load action described
                            earlier in this section.

                            The second form  loads  src[start..end],  a  value
                            from the flow currently being processed, into bits
                            start through end, inclusive, in field dst.

                     output:field[start..end]
                            Add an output action to the  new  flow's  actions,
                            that  outputs  to  the  OpenFlow  port  taken from
                            field[start..end], which must be an NXM  field  as
                            described above.

                     For  best performance, segregate learned flows into a ta‐
                     ble (using table=number) that is not used for  any  other
                     flows except possibly for a lowest-priority ``catch-all''
                     flow, that is, a flow with no match criteria.   (This  is
                     why  the  default  table  is 1, to keep the learned flows
                     separate from the primary flow table 0.)

              clear_actions
                     Clears all the actions in the action set immediately.

              write_actions([action][,action...])
                     Add the specific actions to the action set.   The  syntax
                     of  actions  is  the  same as in the actions= field.  The
                     action set is carried between flow tables and  then  exe‐
                     cuted at the end of the pipeline.

                     The  actions in the action set are applied in the follow‐
                     ing order, as required  by  the  OpenFlow  specification,
                     regardless  of  the order in which they were added to the
                     action set.  Except as  specified  otherwise  below,  the
                     action  set  only  holds  at most a single action of each
                     type.  When more than one action  of  a  single  type  is
                     written to the action set, the one written later replaces
                     the earlier action:

                     1.     strip_vlan
                            pop_mpls

                     2.     push_mpls

                     3.     push_vlan

                     4.     dec_ttl
                            dec_mpls_ttl

                     5.     load
                            move
                            mod_dl_dst
                            mod_dl_src
                            mod_nw_dst
                            mod_nw_src
                            mod_nw_tos
                            mod_nw_ecn
                            mod_nw_ttl
                            mod_tp_dst
                            mod_tp_src
                            mod_vlan_pcp
                            mod_vlan_vid
                            set_field
                            set_tunnel
                            set_tunnel64
                            The action set can contain  any  number  of  these
                            actions,  with  cumulative  effect.  They  will be
                            applied in the order as added.  That is, when mul‐
                            tiple actions modify the same part of a field, the
                            later modification takes  effect,  and  when  they
                            modify  different  parts  of a field (or different
                            fields), then both modifications are applied.

                     6.     set_queue

                     7.     group
                            output
                            resubmit
                            If more than one of these actions is present, then
                            the  one listed earliest above is executed and the
                            others are ignored, regardless  of  the  order  in
                            which they were added to the action set.  (If none
                            of these actions is present, the action set has no
                            real  effect,  because  the modified packet is not
                            sent anywhere and thus the modifications  are  not
                            visible.)

                     Only  the  actions  listed  above  may  be written to the
                     action set.

              write_metadata:value[/mask]
                     Updates the metadata field for the flow. If mask is omit‐
                     ted,  the metadata field is set exactly to value; if mask
                     is specified, then a 1-bit in  mask  indicates  that  the
                     corresponding  bit in the metadata field will be replaced
                     with the corresponding bit from  value.  Both  value  and
                     mask are 64-bit values that are decimal by default; use a
                     0x prefix to specify them in hexadecimal.

              meter:meter_id
                     Apply the meter_id before any other actions. If  a  meter
                     band rate is exceeded, the packet may be dropped, or mod‐
                     ified, depending on the meter band type. See the descrip‐
                     tion  of  the  Meter  Table  Commands,  above,  for  more
                     details.

              goto_table:table
                     Indicates the next table in the process pipeline.

              fin_timeout(argument[,argument])
                     This action changes the idle timeout or hard timeout,  or
                     both,  of  this OpenFlow rule when the rule matches a TCP
                     packet with the FIN or RST flag.  When such a  packet  is
                     observed, the action reduces the rule's timeouts to those
                     specified on the action.  If the rule's existing  timeout
                     is  already  shorter  than the one that the action speci‐
                     fies, then that timeout is unaffected.

                     argument takes the following forms:

                     idle_timeout=seconds
                            Causes the flow to expire after the  given  number
                            of seconds of inactivity.

                     hard_timeout=seconds
                            Causes  the  flow to expire after the given number
                            of  seconds,  regardless  of  activity.   (seconds
                            specifies  time  since  the  flow's  creation, not
                            since the receipt of the FIN or RST.)

                     This action was added in Open vSwitch 1.5.90.

              sample(argument[,argument]...)
                     Samples packets and sends one sample  for  every  sampled
                     packet.

                     argument takes the following forms:

                     probability=packets
                            The  number of sampled packets out of 65535.  Must
                            be greater or equal to 1.

                     collector_set_id=id
                            The unsigned 32-bit integer identifier of the  set
                            of  sample  collectors to send sampled packets to.
                            Defaults to 0.

                     obs_domain_id=id
                            When sending  samples  to  IPFIX  collectors,  the
                            unsigned 32-bit integer Observation Domain ID sent
                            in every IPFIX flow record.  Defaults to 0.

                     obs_point_id=id
                            When sending  samples  to  IPFIX  collectors,  the
                            unsigned  32-bit integer Observation Point ID sent
                            in every IPFIX flow record.  Defaults to 0.

                     sampling_port=port
                            Sample  packets  on  port,  which  should  be  the
                            ingress  or  egress  port.  This option, which was
                            added in Open vSwitch  2.5.90,  allows  the  IPFIX
                            implementation  to  export  egress tunnel informa‐
                            tion.

                     ingress
                     egress Specifies explicitly that the packet is being sam‐
                            pled  on  ingress  to  or  egress from the switch.
                            IPFIX reports sent by Open vSwitch before  version
                            2.5.90  did  not include a direction.  From 2.5.90
                            until 2.6.90, IPFIX reports inferred  a  direction
                            from  sampling_port: if it was the packet's output
                            port, then the direction was reported  as  egress,
                            otherwise  as ingress.  Open vSwitch 2.6.90 intro‐
                            duced these  options,  which  allow  the  inferred
                            direction  to be overridden.  This is particularly
                            useful when the ingress (or egress) port is not  a
                            tunnel.

                     Refer to ovs-vswitchd.conf.db(5) for more details on con‐
                     figuring sample collector sets.

                     This action was added in Open vSwitch 1.10.90.

              exit   This action causes Open vSwitch to immediately halt  exe‐
                     cution  of  further  actions.   Those  actions which have
                     already  been  executed  are  unaffected.   Any   further
                     actions, including those which may be in other tables, or
                     different levels of the resubmit call stack, are ignored.
                     Actions  in  the  action  set  is still executed (specify
                     clear_actions before exit to discard them).

              conjunction(id, k/n)
                     This  action  allows  for   sophisticated   ``conjunctive
                     match''  flows.   Refer  to  CONJUNCTIVE  MATCH FIELDS in
                     ovs-fields(7) for details.

                     The conjunction action and conj_id field were  introduced
                     in Open vSwitch 2.4.

              clone([action][,action...])
                     Executes  each  nested  action, saving much of the packet
                     and pipeline  state  beforehand  and  then  restoring  it
                     afterward.  The state that is saved and restored includes
                     all flow  data  and  metadata  (including,  for  example,
                     ct_state),  the  stack  accessed by push and pop actions,
                     and the OpenFlow action set.

                     This action was added in Open vSwitch 2.6.90.

       An opaque identifier called a cookie can be used as a handle  to  iden‐
       tify a set of flows:

       cookie=value
              A  cookie  can  be  associated  with  a flow using the add-flow,
              add-flows, and mod-flows commands.  value can be any 64-bit num‐
              ber  and need not be unique among flows.  If this field is omit‐
              ted, a default cookie value of 0 is used.

       cookie=value/mask
              When using NXM, the cookie can be used as a handle for querying,
              modifying,  and  deleting flows.  value and mask may be supplied
              for the del-flows,  mod-flows,  dump-flows,  and  dump-aggregate
              commands  to  limit matching cookies.  A 1-bit in mask indicates
              that the corresponding bit in cookie must match exactly,  and  a
              0-bit  wildcards  that bit.  A mask of -1 may be used to exactly
              match a cookie.

              The mod-flows command can update the cookies of flows that match
              a  cookie by specifying the cookie field twice (once with a mask
              for matching and once without to indicate the new value):

              ovs-ofctl mod-flows br0 cookie=1,actions=normal
                     Change all flows' cookies to 1 and change  their  actions
                     to normal.

              ovs-ofctl mod-flows br0 cookie=1/-1,cookie=2,actions=normal
                     Update  cookies  with  a value of 1 to 2 and change their
                     actions to normal.

              The ability to match on cookies was added in Open vSwitch 1.5.0.

       The following additional field sets the priority for flows added by the
       add-flow  and  add-flows  commands.   For  mod-flows and del-flows when
       --strict is specified, priority must match along with the rest  of  the
       flow  specification.   For mod-flows without --strict, priority is only
       significant if the command creates a  new  flow,  that  is,  non-strict
       mod-flows  does  not match on priority and will not change the priority
       of existing flows.  Other commands do not allow priority to  be  speci‐
       fied.

       priority=value
              The  priority at which a wildcarded entry will match in compari‐
              son to others.  value is a number between 0  and  65535,  inclu‐
              sive.   A higher value will match before a lower one.  An exact-
              match entry will always have priority over an  entry  containing
              wildcards,  so it has an implicit priority value of 65535.  When
              adding a flow, if the field is not specified, the flow's  prior‐
              ity will default to 32768.

              OpenFlow  leaves  behavior undefined when two or more flows with
              the same priority can match a single packet.  Some users  expect
              ``sensible'' behavior, such as more specific flows taking prece‐
              dence over less specific flows, but OpenFlow  does  not  specify
              this  and  Open  vSwitch  does  not  implement it.  Users should
              therefore take care to use priorities  to  ensure  the  behavior
              that they expect.

       The  add-flow,  add-flows, and mod-flows commands support the following
       additional options.  These options affect only new  flows.   Thus,  for
       add-flow  and  add-flows, these options are always significant, but for
       mod-flows they are significant only if the command creates a new  flow,
       that is, their values do not update or affect existing flows.

       idle_timeout=seconds
              Causes  the  flow to expire after the given number of seconds of
              inactivity.  A value of 0 (the default)  prevents  a  flow  from
              expiring due to inactivity.

       hard_timeout=seconds
              Causes  the  flow  to  expire after the given number of seconds,
              regardless of activity.  A value of 0 (the  default)  gives  the
              flow no hard expiration deadline.

       importance=value
              Sets  the  importance of a flow.  The flow entry eviction mecha‐
              nism can use importance as a factor in deciding  which  flow  to
              evict.   A value of 0 (the default) makes the flow non-evictable
              on the basis of importance.   Specify  a  value  between  0  and
              65535.

              Only OpenFlow 1.4 and later support importance.

       send_flow_rem
              Marks  the flow with a flag that causes the switch to generate a
              ``flow removed'' message and send it to  interested  controllers
              when the flow later expires or is removed.

       check_overlap
              Forces  the switch to check that the flow match does not overlap
              that of any different flow with the same priority  in  the  same
              table.  (This check is expensive so it is best to avoid it.)

       The dump-flows, dump-aggregate, del-flow and del-flows commands support
       these additional optional fields:

       out_port=port
              If set, a matching flow must include an output action  to  port,
              which must be an OpenFlow port number or name (e.g. local).

       out_group=port
              If  set,  a  matching  flow  must include an group action naming
              group, which must be an OpenFlow group number.   This  field  is
              supported  in  Open  vSwitch 2.5 and later and requires OpenFlow
              1.1 or later.

   Table Entry Output
       The dump-tables and dump-aggregate commands print information about the
       entries in a datapath's tables.  Each line of output is a flow entry as
       described in Flow Syntax, above, plus some additional fields:

       duration=secs
              The time, in seconds, that the entry  has  been  in  the  table.
              secs includes as much precision as the switch provides, possibly
              to nanosecond resolution.

       n_packets
              The number of packets that have matched the entry.

       n_bytes
              The total number of bytes from packets  that  have  matched  the
              entry.

       The following additional fields are included only if the switch is Open
       vSwitch 1.6 or later and the NXM flow format is used to dump  the  flow
       (see the description of the --flow-format option below).  The values of
       these additional fields  are  approximations  only  and  in  particular
       idle_age will sometimes become nonzero even for busy flows.

       hard_age=secs
              The  integer number of seconds since the flow was added or modi‐
              fied.  hard_age is displayed only if it differs from the integer
              part  of  duration.   (This  is  separate  from duration because
              mod-flows restarts the hard_timeout timer without zeroing  dura‐
              tion.)

       idle_age=secs
              The integer number of seconds that have passed without any pack‐
              ets passing through the flow.

   Packet-Out Syntax
       ovs-ofctl bundle command accepts packet-outs to  be  specified  in  the
       bundle  file.   Each  packet-out  comprises  of a series of field=value
       assignments, separated by commas or  white  space.   (Embedding  spaces
       into  a packet-out description normally requires quoting to prevent the
       shell from breaking the description into multiple arguments.).   Unless
       noted otherwise only the last instance of each field is honoured.  This
       same syntax is also supported by the ovs-ofctl packet-out command.

       in_port=port
              The port number to be considered  the  in_port  when  processing
              actions.   This can be any valid OpenFlow port number, or any of
              the LOCAL, CONTROLLER, or NONE.  This field is required.


       packet=hex-string
              The actual packet to send, expressed as a string of  hexadecimal
              bytes.  This field is required.


       actions=[action][,action...]
              The  syntax  of  actions  are  identical  to  the actions= field
              described  in  Flow  Syntax  above.   Specifying   actions=   is
              optional,  but omitting actions is interpreted as a drop, so the
              packet will not be sent anywhere from the switch.  actions  must
              be specified at the end of each line, like for flow mods.

   Group Syntax
       Some  ovs-ofctl  commands  accept an argument that describes a group or
       groups.  Such flow descriptions comprise a series  field=value  assign‐
       ments,  separated  by  commas or white space.  (Embedding spaces into a
       group description normally requires quoting to prevent the  shell  from
       breaking the description into multiple arguments.). Unless noted other‐
       wise only the last instance of each field is honoured.

       group_id=id
              The integer group id of group.  When this field is specified  in
              del-groups or dump-groups, the keyword "all" may be used to des‐
              ignate all groups.  This field is required.



       type=type
              The type of the group.  The add-group, add-groups and mod-groups
              commands  require  this  field.  It is prohibited for other com‐
              mands. The following keywords designated the allowed types:

              all    Execute all buckets in the group.

              select Execute one bucket  in  the  group.   The  switch  should
                     select  the  bucket  in  such a way that should implement
                     equal load sharing is achieved.  The switch  may  option‐
                     ally select the bucket based on bucket weights.

              indirect
                     Executes the one bucket in the group.

              ff
              fast_failover
                     Executes  the  first  live  bucket  in the group which is
                     associated with a live port or group.


       command_bucket_id=id
              The bucket to operate on.  The insert-buckets and remove-buckets
              commands  require  this  field.  It is prohibited for other com‐
              mands.  id may be an integer or one of the following keywords:

              all    Operate on all buckets in the  group.   Only  valid  when
                     used  with  the  remove-buckets command in which case the
                     effect is to remove all buckets from the group.

              first  Operate on the first bucket present in the group.  In the
                     case  of  the  insert-buckets  command  the  effect is to
                     insert new bucets just before the  first  bucket  already
                     present  in  the  group; or to replace the buckets of the
                     group if there are no  buckets  already  present  in  the
                     group.   In  the  case  of the remove-buckets command the
                     effect is to remove the first bucket of the group; or  do
                     nothing if there are no buckets present in the group.

              last   Operate  on the last bucket present in the group.  In the
                     case of the  insert-buckets  command  the  effect  is  to
                     insert  new  bucets  just  after  the last bucket already
                     present in the group; or to replace the  buckets  of  the
                     group  if  there  are  no  buckets already present in the
                     group.  In the case of  the  remove-buckets  command  the
                     effect  is  to remove the last bucket of the group; or do
                     nothing if there are no buckets present in the group.

              If id is an integer then it should correspond to  the  bucket_id
              of a bucket present in the group.  In case of the insert-buckets
              command the effect is to insert buckets just before  the  bucket
              in  the  group  whose  bucket_id is id.  In case of the iremove-
              buckets command the effect is to remove the in the  group  whose
              bucket_id  is  id.  It is an error if there is no bucket persent
              group in whose bucket_id is id.


       selection_method=method
              The selection method used to select a bucket for a select group.
              This  is a string of 1 to 15 bytes in length known to lower lay‐
              ers.  This field  is  optional  for  add-group,  add-groups  and
              mod-group  commands  on groups of type select. Prohibited other‐
              wise. The default value is the empty string.

              hash   Use a hash computed over the fields  specified  with  the
                     fields   option,   see   below.   hash  uses  the  selec‐
                     tion_method_param as the hash basis.

                     Note that the hashed fields become exact matched  by  the
                     datapath  flows.   For example, if the TCP source port is
                     hashed, the created datapath flows will  match  the  spe‐
                     cific  TCP  source  port  value  present  in  the  packet
                     received.  Since each TCP connection generally has a dif‐
                     ferent  source  port value, a separate datapath flow will
                     be need to be  inserted  for  each  TCP  connection  thus
                     hashed to a select group bucket.

              dp_hash
                     Use  a  datapath computed hash value.  The hash algorithm
                     varies  accross   different   datapath   implementations.
                     dp_hash   uses   the   upper   32   bits  of  the  selec‐
                     tion_method_param as the datapath hash  algorithm  selec‐
                     tor,  which  currently must always be 0, corresponding to
                     hash computation over the IP 5-tuple (selecting  specific
                     fields  with  the  fields  option  is  not  allowed  with
                     dp_hash).  The lower 32 bits are used as the hash basis.

                     Using dp_hash has the advantage that it does not  require
                     the  generated  datapath  flows  to exact match any addi‐
                     tional packet header fields.  For example, even if multi‐
                     ple TCP connections thus hashed to different select group
                     buckets have different source port numbers, generally all
                     of  them  would  be  handled  with a small set of already
                     established datapath flows, resulting in less latency for
                     TCP  SYN  packets.  The downside is that the shared data‐
                     path flows must match each packet twice, as the  datapath
                     hash  value  calculation  happens only when needed, and a
                     second match is required to match some bits of its value.
                     This  double-matching  incurs  a small additional latency
                     cost for each packet, but this latency is orders of  mag‐
                     nitude  less  than  the  latency of creating new datapath
                     flows for new TCP connections.

              This option will use a Netronome  OpenFlow  extension  which  is
              only  supported when using Open vSwitch 2.4 and later with Open‐
              Flow 1.5 and later.


       selection_method_param=param
              64-bit integer parameter to the selection method selected by the
              selection_method  field.   The parameter's use is defined by the
              lower-layer  that  implements  the  selection_method.    It   is
              optional  if  the  selection_method field is specified as a non-
              empty string.  Prohibited otherwise. The default value is zero.

              This option will use a Netronome  OpenFlow  extension  which  is
              only  supported when using Open vSwitch 2.4 and later with Open‐
              Flow 1.5 and later.


       fields=field
       fields(field[=mask]...)
              The field parameters to selection method selected by the  selec‐
              tion_method  field.  The syntax is described in Flow Syntax with
              the additional restrictions that if a value is  provided  it  is
              treated  as a wildcard mask and wildcard masks following a slash
              are prohibited. The pre-requisites of fields must be provided by
              any  flows  that  output to the group.  The use of the fields is
              defined by the lower-layer that implements the selection_method.
              They  are optional if the selection_method field is specified as
              ``hash', prohibited otherwise.  The default is no fields.

              This option will use a Netronome  OpenFlow  extension  which  is
              only  supported when using Open vSwitch 2.4 and later with Open‐
              Flow 1.5 and later.


       bucket=bucket_parameters
              The add-group, add-groups  and  mod-group  commands  require  at
              least  one  bucket  field.  Bucket  fields must appear after all
              other fields.  Multiple bucket fields to specify multiple  buck‐
              ets.   The  order  in which buckets are specified corresponds to
              their order in the group. If the type of the group is "indirect"
              then  only  one  group may be specified.  bucket_parameters con‐
              sists of a list of field=value assignments, separated by  commas
              or  white  space  followed by a comma-separated list of actions.
              The fields for bucket_parameters are:

              bucket_id=id
                     The 32-bit  integer  group  id  of  the  bucket.   Values
                     greater  than  0xffffff00  are  reserved.  This field was
                     added in Open vSwitch 2.4 to conform  with  the  OpenFlow
                     1.5  specification. It is not supported when earlier ver‐
                     sions of OpenFlow are used.  Open vSwitch will  automati‐
                     cally allocate bucket ids when they are not specified.

              actions=[action][,action...]
                     The syntax of actions are identical to the actions= field
                     described in Flow Syntax above.  Specifying  actions=  is
                     optional,  any  unknown  bucket  parameter will be inter‐
                     preted as an action.

              weight=value
                     The relative weight of the bucket as an integer. This may
                     be  used  by  the  switch during bucket select for groups
                     whose type is select.

              watch_port=port
                     Port used to determine liveness of group.   This  or  the
                     watch_group field is required for groups whose type is ff
                     or fast_failover.

              watch_group=group_id
                     Group identifier of group used to determine  liveness  of
                     group.   This  or  the  watch_port  field is required for
                     groups whose type is ff or fast_failover.

   Meter Syntax
       The meter table commands accept an argument  that  describes  a  meter.
       Such meter descriptions comprise a series field=value assignments, sep‐
       arated by commas or  white  space.   (Embedding  spaces  into  a  group
       description  normally requires quoting to prevent the shell from break‐
       ing the description into multiple arguments.). Unless  noted  otherwise
       only the last instance of each field is honoured.

       meter=id
              The integer meter id of the meter.  When this field is specified
              in del-meter, dump-meter, or meter-stats, the keyword "all"  may
              be  used to designate all meters.  This field is required, exept
              for meter-stats, which dumps all stats when this  field  is  not
              specified.


       kbps
       pktps  The unit for the meter band rate parameters, either kilobits per
              second, or packets per second, respectively.  One of these  must
              be  specified.  The burst size unit corresponds to the rate unit
              by dropping the "per second", i.e., burst is in units  of  kilo‐
              bits or packets, respectively.


       burst  Specify  burst size for all bands, or none of them, if this flag
              is not given.


       stats  Collect meter and band statistics.


       bands=band_parameters
              The add-meter and mod-meter commands require at least  one  band
              specification. Bands must appear after all other fields.

              type=type
                     The  type  of  the meter band.  This keyword starts a new
                     band specification.  Each band  specifies  a  rate  above
                     which the band is to take some action. The action depends
                     on the band type.  If multiple bands' rate  is  exceeded,
                     then  the  band  with the highest rate among the exceeded
                     bands is selected.  The following keywords designate  the
                     allowed meter band types:

                     drop   Drop packets exceeding the band's rate limit.

              The other band_parameters are:

              rate=value
                     The  relative  rate  limit for this band, in kilobits per
                     second or packets per  second,  depending  on  the  meter
                     flags defined above.

              burst_size=size
                     The  maximum  burst  allowed  for  the band.  If pktps is
                     specified, then size is a packet count, otherwise  it  is
                     in  kilobits.   If  unspecified,  the  switch  is free to
                     select some reasonable value depending on its  configura‐
                     tion.

OPTIONS
       --strict
              Uses strict matching when running flow modification commands.

       --read-only
              Do not execute read/write commands.

       --bundle
              Execute flow mods as an OpenFlow 1.4 atomic bundle transaction.

              ·      Within a bundle, all flow mods are processed in the order
                     they appear and as a single atomic  transaction,  meaning
                     that  if  one  of them fails, the whole transaction fails
                     and none of the changes are made to the switch's flow ta‐
                     ble,  and  that each given datapath packet traversing the
                     OpenFlow tables sees the flow tables either as before the
                     transaction,  or  after  all  the flow mods in the bundle
                     have been successfully applied.

              ·      The beginning and the end of the flow table  modification
                     commands in a bundle are delimited with OpenFlow 1.4 bun‐
                     dle control messages, which makes it possible  to  stream
                     the included commands without explicit OpenFlow barriers,
                     which are otherwise used after each flow table  modifica‐
                     tion  command.  This may make large modifications execute
                     faster as a bundle.

              ·      Bundles require OpenFlow 1.4 or higher.  An  explicit  -O
                     OpenFlow14  option  is  not  needed,  but you may need to
                     enable OpenFlow 1.4 support for OVS by setting the  OVSDB
                     protocols column in the bridge table.

       -O [version[,version]...]
       --protocols=[version[,version]...]
              Sets the OpenFlow protocol versions that are allowed when estab‐
              lishing an OpenFlow session.

              The following versions are considered to be  ready  for  general
              use.  These protocol versions are enabled by default:

              ·      OpenFlow10, for OpenFlow 1.0.

              Support  for  the  following  protocol  versions is provided for
              testing and development  purposes.   They  are  not  enabled  by
              default:

              ·      OpenFlow11, for OpenFlow 1.1.

              ·      OpenFlow12, for OpenFlow 1.2.

              ·      OpenFlow13, for OpenFlow 1.3.

       -F format[,format...]
       --flow-format=format[,format...]
              ovs-ofctl  supports  the  following individual flow formats, any
              number of which may be listed as format:

              OpenFlow10-table_id
                     This is the standard OpenFlow 1.0 flow format.  All Open‐
                     Flow  switches  and  all versions of Open vSwitch support
                     this flow format.

              OpenFlow10+table_id
                     This is the standard OpenFlow  1.0  flow  format  plus  a
                     Nicira  extension  that  allows  ovs-ofctl to specify the
                     flow table in which a particular flow should  be  placed.
                     Open vSwitch 1.2 and later supports this flow format.

              NXM-table_id (Nicira Extended Match)
                     This  Nicira extension to OpenFlow is flexible and exten‐
                     sible.  It supports all of the  Nicira  flow  extensions,
                     such as tun_id and registers.  Open vSwitch 1.1 and later
                     supports this flow format.

              NXM+table_id (Nicira Extended Match)
                     This combines Nicira Extended match with the  ability  to
                     place  a  flow in a specific table.  Open vSwitch 1.2 and
                     later supports this flow format.

              OXM-OpenFlow12
              OXM-OpenFlow13
              OXM-OpenFlow14
                     These are the standard OXM  (OpenFlow  Extensible  Match)
                     flow format in OpenFlow 1.2, 1.3, and 1.4, respectively.

              ovs-ofctl  also supports the following abbreviations for collec‐
              tions of flow formats:

              any    Any supported flow format.

              OpenFlow10
                     OpenFlow10-table_id or OpenFlow10+table_id.

              NXM    NXM-table_id or NXM+table_id.

              OXM    OXM-OpenFlow12, OXM-OpenFlow13, or OXM-OpenFlow14.

              For commands that modify the flow table,  ovs-ofctl  by  default
              negotiates  the  most widely supported flow format that supports
              the flows being added.  For commands that query the flow  table,
              ovs-ofctl  by default uses the most advanced format supported by
              the switch.

              This option, where format is a comma-separated list  of  one  or
              more  of  the formats listed above, limits ovs-ofctl's choice of
              flow format.  If a command cannot work as requested using one of
              the specified flow formats, ovs-ofctl will report a fatal error.

       -P format
       --packet-in-format=format
              ovs-ofctl supports the following ``packet-in'' formats, in order
              of increasing capability:

              standard
                     This  uses  the  OFPT_PACKET_IN  message,  the   standard
                     ``packet-in''  message  for  any  given OpenFlow version.
                     Every OpenFlow switch that supports a given OpenFlow ver‐
                     sion supports this format.

              nxt_packet_in
                     This  uses  the NXT_PACKET_IN message, which adds many of
                     the capabilities of the OpenFlow 1.1 and later  ``packet-
                     in''  messages before those OpenFlow versions were avail‐
                     able in Open vSwitch.  Open vSwitch 1.1 and later support
                     this  format.   Only Open vSwitch 2.6 and later, however,
                     support it for OpenFlow 1.1 and later (but there is  lit‐
                     tle reason to use it with those versions of OpenFlow).

              nxt_packet_in2
                     This uses the NXT_PACKET_IN2 message, which is extensible
                     and should avoid the need to define  new  formats  later.
                     In  particular,  this  format  supports passing arbitrary
                     user-provided data to a  controller  using  the  userdata
                     option  on  the  controller action.  Open vSwitch 2.6 and
                     later support this format.

              Without this option, ovs-ofctl  prefers  nxt_packet_in2  if  the
              switch  supports  it.   Otherwise,  if  OpenFlow  1.0 is in use,
              ovs-ofctl prefers nxt_packet_in if the switch supports it.  Oth‐
              erwise,  ovs-ofctl  falls back to the standard packet-in format.
              When this option is specified, ovs-ofctl insists on the selected
              format.   If  the  switch does not support the requested format,
              ovs-ofctl will report a fatal error.

              Before version 2.6, Open vSwitch called  standard  format  open‐
              flow10 and nxt_packet_in format nxm, and ovs-ofctl still accepts
              these names as synonyms.  (The name openflow10  was  a  misnomer
              because this format actually varies from one OpenFlow version to
              another; it is not consistently OpenFlow 1.0 format.  Similarly,
              when  nxt_packet_in2 was introduced, the name nxm became confus‐
              ing because it also uses OXM/NXM.)

              This option affects only the monitor command.

       --timestamp
              Print a timestamp before each received packet.  This option only
              affects the monitor, snoop, and ofp-parse-pcap commands.

       -m
       --more Increases  the verbosity of OpenFlow messages printed and logged
              by ovs-ofctl commands.  Specify this option more  than  once  to
              increase verbosity further.

       --sort[=field]
       --rsort[=field]
              Display  output  sorted  by  flow field in ascending (--sort) or
              descending (--rsort) order, where field is  any  of  the  fields
              that  are  allowed for matching or priority to sort by priority.
              When field is omitted, the output is sorted by priority.   Spec‐
              ify these options multiple times to sort by multiple fields.

              Any  given flow will not necessarily specify a value for a given
              field.  This requires special treatement:

              ·      A flow that does not specify any part of a field that  is
                     used  for  sorting  is sorted after all the flows that do
                     specify the field.  For example, --sort=tcp_src will sort
                     all the flows that specify a TCP source port in ascending
                     order, followed by the flows that do not  specify  a  TCP
                     source port at all.

              ·      A flow that only specifies some bits in a field is sorted
                     as if  the  wildcarded  bits  were  zero.   For  example,
                     --sort=nw_src   would   sort   a   flow   that  specifies
                     nw_src=192.168.0.0/24 the same as nw_src=192.168.0.0.

              These options currently affect only dump-flows output.  The fol‐
              lowing options are valid on POSIX based platforms.

       --pidfile[=pidfile]
              Causes a file (by default, ovs-ofctl.pid) to be created indicat‐
              ing the PID of the running process.  If the pidfile argument  is
              not  specified,  or if it does not begin with /, then it is cre‐
              ated in /usr/local/var/run/openvswitch.

              If --pidfile is not specified, no pidfile is created.

       --overwrite-pidfile
              By default, when --pidfile is specified and the  specified  pid‐
              file  already  exists  and  is  locked  by  a  running  process,
              ovs-ofctl refuses  to  start.   Specify  --overwrite-pidfile  to
              cause it to instead overwrite the pidfile.

              When --pidfile is not specified, this option has no effect.

       --detach
              Runs  ovs-ofctl as a background process.  The process forks, and
              in the child it starts a new session, closes the  standard  file
              descriptors  (which  has the side effect of disabling logging to
              the console), and changes its  current  directory  to  the  root
              (unless --no-chdir is specified).  After the child completes its
              initialization, the parent exits.  ovs-ofctl detaches only  when
              executing the monitor or snoop commands.

       --monitor
              Creates  an  additional process to monitor the ovs-ofctl daemon.
              If the daemon dies due to a signal that indicates a  programming
              error   (SIGABRT,  SIGALRM,  SIGBUS,  SIGFPE,  SIGILL,  SIGPIPE,
              SIGSEGV, SIGXCPU, or SIGXFSZ) then the monitor process starts  a
              new copy of it.  If the daemon dies or exits for another reason,
              the monitor process exits.

              This option is normally used with --detach, but  it  also  func‐
              tions without it.

       --no-chdir
              By  default,  when  --detach is specified, ovs-ofctl changes its
              current  working  directory  to  the  root  directory  after  it
              detaches.   Otherwise, invoking ovs-ofctl from a carelessly cho‐
              sen directory would prevent the  administrator  from  unmounting
              the file system that holds that directory.

              Specifying   --no-chdir  suppresses  this  behavior,  preventing
              ovs-ofctl from changing its current working directory.  This may
              be useful for collecting core files, since it is common behavior
              to write core dumps into the current working directory  and  the
              root directory is not a good directory to use.

              This option has no effect when --detach is not specified.

       --no-self-confinement
              By  default  daemon will try to self-confine itself to work with
              files under well-know, at  build-time  whitelisted  directories.
              It  is better to stick with this default behavior and not to use
              this flag unless some other Access Control is  used  to  confine
              daemon.  Note that in contrast to other access control implemen‐
              tations that are typically enforced from kernel-space (e.g.  DAC
              or  MAC), self-confinement is imposed from the user-space daemon
              itself and hence should not be considered as a full  confinement
              strategy, but instead should be viewed as an additional layer of
              security.

       --user Causes ovs-ofctl  to  run  as  a  different  user  specified  in
              "user:group",  thus  dropping most of the root privileges. Short
              forms "user" and ":group" are also allowed, with current user or
              group are assumed respectively. Only daemons started by the root
              user accepts this argument.

              On   Linux,   daemons   will   be   granted   CAP_IPC_LOCK   and
              CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICES  before  dropping root privileges. Daemons
              that interact with a datapath, such  as  ovs-vswitchd,  will  be
              granted  two  additional  capabilities, namely CAP_NET_ADMIN and
              CAP_NET_RAW. The capability change will apply even if  new  user
              is "root".

              On Windows, this option is not currently supported. For security
              reasons, specifying this option will cause  the  daemon  process
              not to start.

       --unixctl=socket
              Sets  the  name of the control socket on which ovs-ofctl listens
              for runtime management commands  (see  RUNTIME  MANAGEMENT  COM‐
              MANDS,  below).   If  socket does not begin with /, it is inter‐
              preted  as  relative  to   /usr/local/var/run/openvswitch.    If
              --unixctl   is   not   used   at  all,  the  default  socket  is
              /usr/local/var/run/openvswitch/ovs-ofctl.pid.ctl, where  pid  is
              ovs-ofctl's process ID.

              On Windows a local named pipe is used to listen for runtime man‐
              agement commands.  A file is created in  the  absolute  path  as
              pointed  by socket or if --unixctl is not used at all, a file is
              created as ovs-ofctl.ctl in the configured OVS_RUNDIR directory.
              The  file  exists  just  to  mimic the behavior of a Unix domain
              socket.

              Specifying none for socket disables the control socket feature.

   Public Key Infrastructure Options
       -p privkey.pem
       --private-key=privkey.pem
              Specifies  a  PEM  file  containing  the  private  key  used  as
              ovs-ofctl's identity for outgoing SSL connections.

       -c cert.pem
       --certificate=cert.pem
              Specifies a PEM file containing a certificate that certifies the
              private key specified on -p or --private-key to be  trustworthy.
              The certificate must be signed by the certificate authority (CA)
              that the peer in SSL connections will use to verify it.

       -C cacert.pem
       --ca-cert=cacert.pem
              Specifies  a  PEM  file  containing  the  CA  certificate   that
              ovs-ofctl  should  use to verify certificates presented to it by
              SSL peers.  (This may be the same certificate that SSL peers use
              to  verify  the certificate specified on -c or --certificate, or
              it may be a different one, depending on the PKI design in use.)

       -C none
       --ca-cert=none
              Disables verification of certificates presented  by  SSL  peers.
              This  introduces a security risk, because it means that certifi‐
              cates cannot be verified to be those of known trusted hosts.

       -v[spec]
       --verbose=[spec]
              Sets logging levels.  Without any spec, sets the log  level  for
              every  module and destination to dbg.  Otherwise, spec is a list
              of words separated by spaces or commas or colons, up to one from
              each category below:

              ·      A  valid  module name, as displayed by the vlog/list com‐
                     mand on ovs-appctl(8), limits the log level change to the
                     specified module.

              ·      syslog,  console,  or file, to limit the log level change
                     to only to the system log, to the console, or to a  file,
                     respectively.    (If  --detach  is  specified,  ovs-ofctl
                     closes its standard file descriptors, so logging  to  the
                     console will have no effect.)

                     On  Windows platform, syslog is accepted as a word and is
                     only useful along with the  --syslog-target  option  (the
                     word has no effect otherwise).

              ·      off,  emer,  err,  warn, info, or dbg, to control the log
                     level.  Messages of the given severity or higher will  be
                     logged,  and  messages of lower severity will be filtered
                     out.  off filters out all  messages.   See  ovs-appctl(8)
                     for a definition of each log level.

              Case is not significant within spec.

              Regardless  of  the  log  levels set for file, logging to a file
              will not take place unless --log-file  is  also  specified  (see
              below).

              For compatibility with older versions of OVS, any is accepted as
              a word but has no effect.

       -v
       --verbose
              Sets the maximum logging verbosity level, equivalent  to  --ver‐
              bose=dbg.

       -vPATTERN:destination:pattern
       --verbose=PATTERN:destination:pattern
              Sets  the  log  pattern  for  destination  to pattern.  Refer to
              ovs-appctl(8) for a description of the valid syntax for pattern.

       -vFACILITY:facility
       --verbose=FACILITY:facility
              Sets the RFC5424 facility of the log message.  facility  can  be
              one  of kern, user, mail, daemon, auth, syslog, lpr, news, uucp,
              clock, ftp, ntp, audit, alert, clock2, local0,  local1,  local2,
              local3,  local4, local5, local6 or local7. If this option is not
              specified, daemon is used as the default for  the  local  system
              syslog  and local0 is used while sending a message to the target
              provided via the --syslog-target option.

       --log-file[=file]
              Enables logging to a file.  If file is  specified,  then  it  is
              used  as  the exact name for the log file.  The default log file
              name  used  if  file  is  omitted  is   /usr/local/var/log/open‐
              vswitch/ovs-ofctl.log.

       --syslog-target=host:port
              Send  syslog  messages  to  UDP port on host, in addition to the
              system syslog.  The host must be a numerical IP address,  not  a
              hostname.

       --syslog-method=method
              Specify method how syslog messages should be sent to syslog dae‐
              mon.  Following forms are supported:

              ·      libc, use libc syslog() function.  This  is  the  default
                     behavior.   Downside  of  using this options is that libc
                     adds fixed prefix to every message before it is  actually
                     sent  to  the  syslog  daemon  over  /dev/log UNIX domain
                     socket.

              ·      unix:file, use UNIX domain socket directly.  It is possi‐
                     ble to specify arbitrary message format with this option.
                     However, rsyslogd 8.9 and older versions use  hard  coded
                     parser  function  anyway  that  limits UNIX domain socket
                     use.  If you want to use arbitrary  message  format  with
                     older rsyslogd versions, then use UDP socket to localhost
                     IP address instead.

              ·      udp:ip:port, use UDP socket.  With this method it is pos‐
                     sible  to  use  arbitrary  message format also with older
                     rsyslogd.  When sending syslog messages over  UDP  socket
                     extra  precaution  needs  to  be  taken into account, for
                     example, syslog daemon needs to be configured  to  listen
                     on  the  specified  UDP  port,  accidental iptables rules
                     could be interfering with local syslog traffic and  there
                     are  some security considerations that apply to UDP sock‐
                     ets, but do not apply to UNIX domain sockets.

       --color[=when]
              Colorize the output (for some  commands);  when  can  be  never,
              always, or auto (the default).

              Only  some  commands  support  output coloring.  Color names and
              default colors may change in future releases.

              The environment variable OVS_COLORS can be used to specify user-
              defined  colors  and  other attributes used to highlight various
              parts of the output. If set, its value is a colon-separated list
              of         capabilities         that         defaults         to
              ac:01;31:dr=34:le=31:pm=36:pr=35:sp=33:vl=32. Supported capabil‐
              ities  were initially designed for coloring flows from ovs-ofctl
              dump-flows switch command, and they are as follows.

                     ac=01;31
                            SGR substring for actions= keyword in a flow.  The
                            default is a bold red text foreground.

                     dr=34  SGR  substring for drop keyword.  The default is a
                            dark blue text foreground.

                     le=31  SGR substring for learn= keyword in a  flow.   The
                            default is a red text foreground.

                     pm=36  SGR substring for flow match attribute names.  The
                            default is a cyan text foreground.

                     pr=35  SGR substring for keywords in a flow that are fol‐
                            lowed   by   arguments  inside  parenthesis.   The
                            default is a magenta text foreground.

                     sp=33  SGR substring for some special keywords in a flow,
                            notably: table=, priority=, load:, output:, move:,
                            group:, CONTROLLER:, set_field:, resubmit:,  exit.
                            The default is a yellow text foreground.

                     vl=32  SGR substring for a lone flow match attribute with
                            no field name.  The default is a green text  fore‐
                            ground.

              See the Select Graphic Rendition (SGR) section in the documenta‐
              tion of the text terminal that is used for permitted values  and
              their meaning as character attributes.

       -h
       --help Prints a brief help message to the console.

       -V
       --version
              Prints version information to the console.

RUNTIME MANAGEMENT COMMANDS
       ovs-appctl(8)  can  send  commands to a running ovs-ofctl process.  The
       supported commands are listed below.

       exit   Causes ovs-ofctl to gracefully terminate.  This command  applies
              only when executing the monitor or snoop commands.

       ofctl/set-output-file file
              Causes  all  subsequent  output to go to file instead of stderr.
              This command applies only when executing the  monitor  or  snoop
              commands.

       ofctl/send ofmsg...
              Sends  each  ofmsg,  specified  as a sequence of hex digits that
              express an OpenFlow message, on the OpenFlow  connection.   This
              command is useful only when executing the monitor command.

       ofctl/packet-out packet-out
              Sends  an  OpenFlow  PACKET_OUT  message specified in Packet-Out
              Syntax, on the OpenFlow connection.  See Packet-Out Syntax  sec‐
              tion  for  more  information.   This command is useful only when
              executing the monitor command.

       ofctl/barrier
              Sends an OpenFlow barrier request on the OpenFlow connection and
              waits  for a reply.  This command is useful only for the monitor
              command.

EXAMPLES
       The following examples assume that ovs-vswitchd has a bridge named  br0
       configured.

       ovs-ofctl dump-tables br0
              Prints  out the switch's table stats.  (This is more interesting
              after some traffic has passed through.)

       ovs-ofctl dump-flows br0
              Prints the flow entries in the switch.

       ovs-ofctl   add-flow   table=0   actions=learn(table=1,hard_timeout=10,
       NXM_OF_VLAN_TCI[0..11],output:NXM_OF_IN_PORT[]), resubmit(,1)
              ovs-ofctl  add-flow  table=1 priority=0 actions=flood Implements
              a level 2 MAC learning switch using the learn.

       ovs-ofctl          add-flow           br0           'table=0,priority=0
       actions=load:3->NXM_NX_REG0[0..15],learn(table=0,priority=1,idle_time‐
       out=10,NXM_OF_ETH_SRC[],NXM_OF_VLAN_TCI[0..11],out‐
       put:NXM_NX_REG0[0..15]),output:2
              In this use of a learn action, the first packet from each source
              MAC will be sent to port 2. Subsequent packets will be output to
              port 3, with an idle timeout of 10 seconds.  NXM field names and
              match field names are both accepted, e.g.  NXM_NX_REG0  or  reg0
              for the first register, and empty brackets may be omitted.

              Additional  examples  may be found documented as part of related
              sections.

SEE ALSO
       ovs-fields(7), ovs-appctl(8), ovs-vswitchd(8), ovs-vswitchd.conf.db(8)



Open vSwitch                        2.7.90                        ovs-ofctl(8)
