ovs-dpctl(8)                  Open vSwitch Manual                 ovs-dpctl(8)



NAME
       ovs-dpctl - administer Open vSwitch datapaths

SYNOPSIS
       ovs-dpctl [options] command [switch] [args...]

DESCRIPTION
       The ovs-dpctl program can create, modify, and delete Open vSwitch data‐
       paths.  A single machine may host any number of datapaths.

       A newly created datapath is associated with only one network device,  a
       virtual  network device sometimes called the datapath's ``local port''.
       A newly created datapath is not, however, associated with  any  of  the
       host's  other  network  devices.  To intercept and process traffic on a
       given network device, use the add-if command  to  explicitly  add  that
       network device to the datapath.

       If ovs-vswitchd(8) is in use, use ovs-vsctl(8) instead of ovs-dpctl.

       Most  ovs-dpctl commands that work with datapaths take an argument that
       specifies the name of the  datapath.   Datapath  names  take  the  form
       [type@]name, where name is the network device associated with the data‐
       path's local port.   If  type  is  given,  it  specifies  the  datapath
       provider of name, otherwise the default provider system is assumed.

       The following commands manage datapaths.

       add-dp dp [netdev[,option]...]
              Creates datapath dp, with a local port also named dp.  This will
              fail if a network device dp already exists.

              If netdevs are specified, ovs-dpctl adds them to the  new  data‐
              path, just as if add-if was specified.

       del-dp dp
              Deletes  datapath  dp.   If  dp  is  associated with any network
              devices, they are automatically removed.

       add-if dp netdev[,option]...
              Adds each netdev to the set of network devices datapath dp moni‐
              tors,  where  dp is the name of an existing datapath, and netdev
              is the name of one of the host's  network  devices,  e.g.  eth0.
              Once a network device has been added to a datapath, the datapath
              has complete ownership of the network device's traffic  and  the
              network device appears silent to the rest of the system.

              A  netdev  may be followed by a comma-separated list of options.
              The following options are currently supported:

              type=type
                     Specifies the type of port to add.  The default  type  is
                     system.

              port_no=port
                     Requests  a specific port number within the datapath.  If
                     this option is not specified then one will  be  automati‐
                     cally assigned.

              key=value
                     Adds an arbitrary key-value option to the port's configu‐
                     ration.

              ovs-vswitchd.conf.db(5) documents the available port  types  and
              options.

       set-if dp port[,option]...
              Reconfigures  each  port  in  dp as specified.  An option of the
              form key=value adds the specified key-value option to  the  port
              or  overrides  an  existing  key's value.  An option of the form
              key=, that is, without a value, deletes the key-value named key.
              The  type  and  port number of a port cannot be changed, so type
              and port_no are only allowed if they match the existing configu‐
              ration.

       del-if dp netdev...
              Removes each netdev from the list of network devices datapath dp
              monitors.

       dump-dps
              Prints the name of each configured datapath on a separate line.

       [-s | --statistics] show [dp...]
              Prints a summary of configured datapaths, including their  data‐
              path  numbers  and  a  list of ports connected to each datapath.
              (The local port is identified as port 0.)  If -s or --statistics
              is specified, then packet and byte counters are also printed for
              each port.

              The datapath numbers consists of flow stats and mega  flow  mask
              stats.

              The  "lookups"  row  displays three stats related to flow lookup
              triggered by processing incoming packets in the datapath.  "hit"
              displays number of packets matches existing flows. "missed" dis‐
              plays the number of packets not matching any existing  flow  and
              require  user space processing.  "lost" displays number of pack‐
              ets destined for user space  process  but  subsequently  dropped
              before reaching userspace. The sum of "hit" and "miss" equals to
              the total number of packets datapath processed.

              The "flows" row displays the number of flows in datapath.

              The "masks" row displays the mega flow mask stats. This  row  is
              omitted  for datapath not implementing mega flow. "hit" displays
              the total number of masks visited for matching incoming packets.
              "total" displays number of masks in the datapath. "hit/pkt" dis‐
              plays the average number of masks visited per packet; the  ratio
              between "hit" and total number of packets processed by the data‐
              path".

              If one or more datapaths  are  specified,  information  on  only
              those  datapaths  are  displayed.  Otherwise, ovs-dpctl displays
              information about all configured datapaths.

   DATAPATH FLOW TABLE DEBUGGING COMMANDS
       The following commands are primarily useful for debugging Open vSwitch.
       The  flow  table entries (both matches and actions) that they work with
       are not OpenFlow flow entries.  Instead, they are different and consid‐
       erably simpler flows maintained by the Open vSwitch kernel module.  Use
       ovs-ofctl(8), instead, to work with OpenFlow flow entries.

       The dp argument to each of these commands is optional when exactly  one
       datapath exists, in which case that datapath is the default.  When mul‐
       tiple datapaths exist, then a datapath name is required.

       [-m | --more] dump-flows [dp] [filter=filter]
              Prints to the console all flow entries in datapath dp's flow ta‐
              ble.   Without  -m  or  --more, output omits match fields that a
              flow wildcards entirely; with -m or --more, output includes  all
              wildcarded fields.

              If  filter=filter  is  specified,  only  displays the flows that
              match the filter. filter is a flow in the form similiar to  that
              accepted  by  ovs-ofctl(8)'s  add-flow  command. (This is not an
              OpenFlow flow: besides  other  differences,  it  never  contains
              wildcards.)   The  filter  is  also  useful  to match wildcarded
              fields   in   the   datapath   flow.   As   an   example,   fil‐
              ter='tcp,tp_src=100'  will  match  the  datapath flow containing
              'tcp(src=80/0xff00,dst=8080/0xff)'.

       add-flow [dp] flow actions

       [--clear] [--may-create] [-s | --statistics] mod-flow [dp] flow actions
              Adds or modifies a flow in dp's flow table that, when  a  packet
              matching flow arrives, causes actions to be executed.

              The  add-flow  command  succeeds  only  if flow does not already
              exist in dp.  Contrariwise, mod-flow without  --may-create  only
              modifies  the  actions for an existing flow.  With --may-create,
              mod-flow will add a new flow or modify an existing one.

              If -s or --statistics is specified, then  mod-flows  prints  the
              modified  flow's statistics.  A flow's statistics are the number
              of packets and bytes that have  passed  through  the  flow,  the
              elapsed  time  since the flow last processed a packet (if ever),
              and (for TCP flows) the union of the TCP flags processed through
              the flow.

              With  --clear,  mod-flows  zeros out the flow's statistics.  The
              statistics printed if -s or --statistics is also  specified  are
              those from just before clearing the statistics.

       [-s | --statistics] del-flow [dp] flow
              Deletes  the flow from dp's flow table that matches flow.  If -s
              or --statistics is specified, then mod-flows prints the  deleted
              flow's statistics.

       del-flows [dp]
              Deletes all flow entries from datapath dp's flow table.

OPTIONS
       -s
       --statistics
              Causes  the  show  command to print packet and byte counters for
              each port within the datapaths that it shows.

       -m
       --more Increases the verbosity of dump-flows output.

       -t
       --timeout=secs
              Limits ovs-dpctl runtime to approximately secs seconds.  If  the
              timeout expires, ovs-dpctl will exit with a SIGALRM signal.

       -v[spec]
       --verbose=[spec]
              Sets  logging  levels.  Without any spec, sets the log level for
              every module and facility to dbg.  Otherwise, spec is a list  of
              words  separated  by  spaces or commas or colons, up to one from
              each category below:

              ·      A valid module name, as displayed by the  vlog/list  com‐
                     mand on ovs-appctl(8), limits the log level change to the
                     specified module.

              ·      syslog, console, or file, to limit the log  level  change
                     to  only to the system log, to the console, or to a file,
                     respectively.

                     On Windows platform, syslog is accepted as a word and  is
                     only  useful  along  with the --syslog-target option (the
                     word has no effect otherwise).

              ·      off, emer, err, warn, info, or dbg, to  control  the  log
                     level.   Messages of the given severity or higher will be
                     logged, and messages of lower severity will  be  filtered
                     out.   off  filters  out all messages.  See ovs-appctl(8)
                     for a definition of each log level.

              Case is not significant within spec.

              Regardless of the log levels set for file,  logging  to  a  file
              will  not  take  place  unless --log-file is also specified (see
              below).

              For compatibility with older versions of OVS, any is accepted as
              a word but has no effect.

       -v
       --verbose
              Sets  the  maximum logging verbosity level, equivalent to --ver‐
              bose=dbg.

       -vPATTERN:facility:pattern
       --verbose=PATTERN:facility:pattern
              Sets  the  log  pattern  for  facility  to  pattern.   Refer  to
              ovs-appctl(8) for a description of the valid syntax for pattern.

       --log-file[=file]
              Enables  logging  to  a  file.  If file is specified, then it is
              used as the exact name for the log file.  The default  log  file
              name    used    if    file    is   omitted   is   /var/log/open‐
              vswitch/ovs-dpctl.log.

       --syslog-target=host:port
              Send syslog messages to UDP port on host,  in  addition  to  the
              system  syslog.   The host must be a numerical IP address, not a
              hostname.

       -h
       --help Prints a brief help message to the console.

       -V
       --version
              Prints version information to the console.

SEE ALSO
       ovs-appctl(8), ovs-vswitchd(8)



Open vSwitch                        2.3.90                        ovs-dpctl(8)
