ovs-dpctl-top(8)              Open vSwitch Manual             ovs-dpctl-top(8)



NAME
       ovs-dpctl-top - Top like behavior for ovs-dpctl dump-flows

SYNOPSIS
       ovs-dpctl-top  [-h]  [-v]  [-f FLOWFILES] [-V] [-s] [--host HOST] [-a |
       --accumulate] [--accumulate-decay ACCUMULATEDECAY] [-d DELAY]

DESCRIPTION
       This program summarizes ovs-dpctl flow content by aggregating the  num‐
       ber of packets, total bytes and occurrence of the following fields:

              - Datapath in_port

              - Ethernet type

              - Source and destination MAC addresses

              - IP protocol

              - Source and destination IPv4 addresses

              - Source and destination IPv6 addresses

              - UDP and TCP destination port

              - Tunnel source and destination addresses

   Output shows four values:
              - FIELDS: the flow fields for example in_port(1).

              - COUNT: the number of lines in the dump-flow output contain the
              flow field.

              - PACKETS: the total  number  of  packets  containing  the  flow
              field.

              -  BYTES:  the  total number of bytes containing the flow field.
              If units are not present then values are in bytes.

              - AVERAGE: the average packets size (BYTES/PACKET).

   Top Behavior
       While in top mode, the default behavior, the following single character
       commands are supported:

              a - toggles top in accumulate and live mode.  Accumulate mode is
              described below.

              s - toggles which column is used to sort content  in  decreasing
              order.  A DESC title is placed over the column.

              _ - a space indicating to collect dump-flow content again

              h - halt output.  Any character will restart sampling

              f - cycle through flow fields

              q - q for quit.

   Accumulate Mode
       There  are  two  supported  modes: live and accumulate.  The default is
       live.  The parameter --accumulate  or the 'a'  character  in  top  mode
       enables  the  latter.   In  live mode, recent dump-flow content is pre‐
       sented.  Where as accumulate mode keeps track of the  prior  historical
       information until the flow is reset not when the flow is purged.  Reset
       flows are determined when the packet count for  a  flow  has  decreased
       from  its  previous sample.  There is one caveat, eventually the system
       will run out of memory if, after the accumulate-decay period any  flows
       that have not been refreshed are purged.  The goal here is to free mem‐
       ory of flows that are not  active.   Statistics  are  not  decremented.
       Their purpose is to reflect the overall history of the flow fields.

   Debugging Errors
       Parsing  errors  are  counted  and  displayed in the status line at the
       beginning of the output.  Use the --verbose option with --script to see
       what output was not parsed, like this:

       $ ovs-dpctl dump-flows | ovs-dpctl-top --script --verbose

       Error messages will identify content that failed to parse.

   Access Remote Hosts
       The  --host  must  follow the format user@hostname.  This script simply
       calls 'ssh user@Hostname' without checking for login credentials there‐
       fore  public keys should be installed on the system identified by host‐
       name, such as:

       $ ssh-copy-id user@hostname

       Consult ssh-copy-id man pages for more details.

   Expected usage
       $ ovs-dpctl-top

       or to run as a script:

       $ ovs-dpctl dump-flows > dump-flows.log

       $ ovs-dpctl-top --script --flow-file dump-flows.log

   OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              show this help message and exit.

       -v, --version
              show program's version number and exit.

       -f FLOWFILES, --flow-file FLOWFILES
              file containing flows from ovs-dpctl dump-flow.

       -V, --verbose
              enable debug level verbosity.

       -s, --script
              Run from a script (no user interface).

       --host HOST
              Specify a user@host for retrieving flows  see  Accessing  Remote
              Hosts for more information.

       -a, --accumulate
              Accumulate dump-flow content.

       --accumulate-decay ACCUMULATEDECAY
              Decay  old accumulated flows.  The default is 5 minutes. A value
              of 0 disables decay.

       -d DELAY, --delay DELAY
              Delay in  milliseconds  to  collect  dump-flow  content  (sample
              rate).



Open vSwitch                        2.3.90                    ovs-dpctl-top(8)
