ovs-bugtool(8)                Open vSwitch Manual               ovs-bugtool(8)

NAME
       ovs-bugtool - Open vSwitch bug reporting utility

SYNOPSIS
       ovs-bugtool

DESCRIPTION
       Generates  a debug bundle with useful information about Open vSwitch on
       this system and places it in /var/log/ovs-bugtool.

COLLECTION OPTIONS
       These options influence what categories of data ovs-bugtool collects.

       --entries=list
              Collect the capabilities specified in the comma-separated list.

       --all  Collect all available capabilities.

       --ovs  In addition to Open vSwitch configuration and  status,  ovs-bug‐
              tool can collect a variety of relevant system information.  This
              option limits collection to Open vSwitch-specific categories.

       --log-days=days
              Include  the  logs  with  last modification time in the previous
              days days in the debug bundle. The number of log files  included
              has  a big impact on the eventual bundle size. The default value
              is 20 days.

       -y
       --yestoall
              Answer yes to all prompts.

       --capabilities
              Writes the categories that ovs-bugtool can collect on stdout  in
              XML, then exits.

OUTPUT OPTIONS
       These  options influence the format and destination of ovs-bugtool out‐
       put.

       --output=filetype
              Generates a debug bundle with the specified file type.   Options
              include tar, tar.gz, tar.bz2, and zip.

       --outfile=file
              Write output to file.  Mutually exclusive with --outfd.

       --outfd=fd
              Write  output  to  file descriptor fd.  This option must be used
              with --output=tar.

       --unlimited
              Do not exclude files which are too  large.  Also  skip  checking
              free  disk  space.  By default up to 90 percent of the free disk
              space can be used.

       --debug
              Print verbose debugging output.

OTHER OPTIONS
       -s
       --silent
              Suppress most output to stdout.

       --help Print a summary of ovs-bugtool usage to stdout, then exit.

EXAMPLES
       Here's a collection of some commonly useful options:

       ovs-bugtool -y -s --output=tar.gz --outfile=/var/log/bugtool-report.tgz

BUGS
       ovs-bugtool makes many assumptions about file locations and the  avail‐
       ability  of system utilities.  It has been tested on Debian and Red Hat
       and derived distributions.  On other distributions it is likely  to  be
       less useful.

Open vSwitch                         3.4.0                      ovs-bugtool(8)
