ovs-testcontroller(8)         Open vSwitch Manual        ovs-testcontroller(8)

NAME
       ovs-testcontroller - simple OpenFlow controller for testing

SYNOPSIS
       ovs-testcontroller [options] method [method]...

DESCRIPTION
       ovs-testcontroller  is  a  simple  OpenFlow controller that manages any
       number of switches over the OpenFlow protocol, causing them to function
       as L2 MAC-learning switches or hubs.  It is suitable for initial  test‐
       ing of OpenFlow networks.  It is not a necessary or desirable part of a
       production OpenFlow deployment.

       ovs-testcontroller controls one or more OpenFlow switches, specified as
       one or more of the following OpenFlow connection methods:

              pssl:[port][:host]
              ptcp:[port][:host]
                     Listens  for  OpenFlow  connections on port.  The default
                     port is 6653.  By default, connections are  allowed  from
                     any  IPv4  address.  Specify host as an IPv4 address or a
                     bracketed IPv6 address (e.g. ptcp:6653:[::1]).  On Linux,
                     use %device to designate a scope for IPv6 link-level  ad‐
                     dresses, e.g. ptcp:6653:[fe80::1234%eth0].  DNS names can
                     be  used  if  built  with unbound library.  For pssl, the
                     --private-key,--certificate, and  --ca-cert  options  are
                     mandatory.

              punix:file
                     Listens  for  OpenFlow  connections  on  the  Unix domain
                     server socket named file.

              ssl:host[:port]
              tcp:host[:port]
                     The specified port on the given host, which  can  be  ex‐
                     pressed  either  as a DNS name (if built with unbound li‐
                     brary) or an IP address in IPv4 or IPv6  address  format.
                     Wrap    IPv6   addresses   in   square   brackets,   e.g.
                     tcp:[::1]:6653.  On Linux, use  %device  to  designate  a
                     scope     for    IPv6    link-level    addresses,    e.g.
                     tcp:[fe80::1234%eth0]:6653.  For ssl, the  --private-key,
                     --certificate, and --ca-cert options are mandatory.

                     If port is not specified, it defaults to 6653.

              unix:file
                     On POSIX, a Unix domain server socket named file.

                     On  Windows, connect to a local named pipe that is repre‐
                     sented by a file created in the path file  to  mimic  the
                     behavior of a Unix domain socket.

OPTIONS
       -n
       --noflow
              By  default,  ovs-testcontroller sets up a flow in each OpenFlow
              switch whenever it receives a packet whose destination is  known
              due  through  MAC learning.  This option disables flow setup, so
              that every packet in the network passes through the controller.

              This option is most useful for debugging.  It reduces  switching
              performance, so it should not be used in production.

       --max-idle=secs|permanent
              Sets  secs  as  the  number of seconds that a flow set up by the
              controller will remain in the switch's flow  table  without  any
              matching  packets  being seen.  If permanent is specified, which
              is not recommended, flows will never expire.  The default is  60
              seconds.

              This  option  has no effect when -n (or --noflow) is in use (be‐
              cause the controller does not set up flows in that case).

       -H
       --hub  By default, the controller acts as an  L2  MAC-learning  switch.
              This  option  changes  its behavior to that of a hub that floods
              packets on all but the incoming port.

              If -H (or --hub) and -n (or --noflow) are  used  together,  then
              the  cumulative  effect  is that every packet passes through the
              controller and every packet is flooded.

              This option is most useful for debugging.  It reduces  switching
              performance, so it should not be used in production.

       -w[wildcard_mask]
       --wildcards[=wildcard_mask]
              By  default, ovs-testcontroller sets up exact-match flows.  This
              option allows it to set up wildcarded flows,  which  may  reduce
              flow  setup latency by causing less traffic to be sent up to the
              controller.

              The optional wildcard_mask is an OpenFlow  wildcard  bitmask  in
              hexadecimal  that specifies the fields to wildcard.  If no wild‐
              card_mask is specified, the default value 0x2820F0 is used which
              specifies L2-only switching and wildcards L3 and L4 fields.  An‐
              other interesting value is  0x2000EC,  which  specifies  L3-only
              switching and wildcards L2 and L4 fields.

              This  option  has no effect when -n (or --noflow) is in use (be‐
              cause the controller does not set up flows in that case).

       -N
       --normal
              By default, ovs-testcontroller directs packets to  a  particular
              port  or  floods  them.   This  option  causes it to direct non-
              flooded packets to the OpenFlow OFPP_NORMAL port.   This  allows
              the  switch  itself to make decisions about packet destinations.
              Support for OFPP_NORMAL is optional in OpenFlow, so this  option
              may not well with some non-Open vSwitch switches.

       --mute Prevents  ovs-testcontroller  from replying to any OpenFlow mes‐
              sages sent to it by switches.

              This option is only for debugging the Open  vSwitch  implementa‐
              tion of ``fail open'' mode.  It must not be used in production.

       -q id
       --queue=id
              By  default,  ovs-testcontroller uses the default OpenFlow queue
              for sending packets and setting up flows.  Use one of these  op‐
              tions, supplying id as an OpenFlow queue ID as a decimal number,
              to instead use that specific queue.

              This  option  is incompatible with -N or --normal and with -H or
              --hub.  If more than one is specified  then  this  option  takes
              precedence.

              This  option  may  be useful for testing or debugging quality of
              service setups.

       -Q port-name:queue-id

       --port-queue port-name:queue-id
              Configures packets received on the port  named  port-name  (e.g.
              eth0) to be output on OpenFlow queue ID queue-id (specified as a
              decimal  number).  For the specified port, this option overrides
              the default specified on -q or --queue.

              This option may be specified any number of times with  different
              port-name arguments.

              This  option  is incompatible with -N or --normal and with -H or
              --hub.  If more than one is specified  then  this  option  takes
              precedence.

              This  option  may  be useful for testing or debugging quality of
              service setups.

       --with-flows file
              When a switch connects, push the flow entries  as  described  in
              file.  Each line in file is a flow entry in the format described
              for  the  add-flows  command  in  the Flow Syntax section of the
              ovs-ofctl(8) man page.

              Use this option more than once to add flows from multiple files.

   Public Key Infrastructure Options
       -p privkey.pem
       --private-key=privkey.pem
              Specifies  a  PEM  file  containing  the  private  key  used  as
              ovs-testcontroller's identity for outgoing SSL/TLS connections.

       -c cert.pem
       --certificate=cert.pem
              Specifies a PEM file containing a certificate that certifies the
              private  key specified on -p or --private-key to be trustworthy.
              The certificate must be signed by the certificate authority (CA)
              that the peer in SSL/TLS connections will use to verify it.

       -C cacert.pem
       --ca-cert=cacert.pem
              Specifies  a  PEM  file  containing  the  CA  certificate   that
              ovs-testcontroller  should  use to verify certificates presented
              to it by SSL/TLS peers.  (This may be the same certificate  that
              SSL/TLS  peers  use to verify the certificate specified on -c or
              --certificate, or it may be a different one,  depending  on  the
              PKI design in use.)

       -C none
       --ca-cert=none
              Disables  verification  of  certificates  presented  by  SSL/TLS
              peers.  This introduces a security risk, because it  means  that
              certificates  cannot  be  verified  to be those of known trusted
              hosts.

       --peer-ca-cert=peer-cacert.pem
              Specifies a PEM file that contains one or more  additional  cer‐
              tificates  to  send to SSL/TLS peers.  peer-cacert.pem should be
              the CA certificate used to sign  ovs-testcontroller's  own  cer‐
              tificate, that is, the certificate specified on -c or --certifi‐
              cate.   If ovs-testcontroller's certificate is self-signed, then
              --certificate and --peer-ca-cert should specify the same file.

              This option is not  useful  in  normal  operation,  because  the
              SSL/TLS  peer  must already have the CA certificate for the peer
              to have any confidence in ovs-testcontroller's  identity.   How‐
              ever,  this offers a way for a new installation to bootstrap the
              CA certificate on its first SSL/TLS connection.

   Daemon Options
       The following options are valid on POSIX based platforms.

       --pidfile[=pidfile]
              Causes a file (by default, ovs-testcontroller.pid) to be created
              indicating the PID of the running process.  If the pidfile argu‐
              ment is not specified, or if it does not begin with /,  then  it
              is created in /usr/local/var/run/openvswitch.

              If --pidfile is not specified, no pidfile is created.

       --overwrite-pidfile
              By  default,  when --pidfile is specified and the specified pid‐
              file  already  exists  and  is  locked  by  a  running  process,
              ovs-testcontroller  refuses  to start.  Specify --overwrite-pid‐
              file to cause it to instead overwrite the pidfile.

              When --pidfile is not specified, this option has no effect.

       --detach
              Runs ovs-testcontroller as a background  process.   The  process
              forks,  and  in  the  child  it starts a new session, closes the
              standard file descriptors (which has the  side  effect  of  dis‐
              abling  logging  to the console), and changes its current direc‐
              tory to the root (unless --no-chdir is  specified).   After  the
              child completes its initialization, the parent exits.

       --monitor
              Creates  an additional process to monitor the ovs-testcontroller
              daemon.  If the daemon dies due to a  signal  that  indicates  a
              programming  error  (SIGABRT,  SIGALRM,  SIGBUS, SIGFPE, SIGILL,
              SIGPIPE, SIGSEGV, SIGXCPU, or SIGXFSZ) then the monitor  process
              starts  a  new  copy of it.  If the daemon dies or exits for an‐
              other reason, the monitor process exits.

              This option is normally used with --detach, but  it  also  func‐
              tions without it.

       --no-chdir
              By  default,  when  --detach  is  specified,  ovs-testcontroller
              changes its current working directory to the root directory  af‐
              ter  it detaches.  Otherwise, invoking ovs-testcontroller from a
              carelessly chosen directory would prevent the administrator from
              unmounting the file system that holds that directory.

              Specifying  --no-chdir  suppresses  this  behavior,   preventing
              ovs-testcontroller  from changing its current working directory.
              This may be useful for collecting core files, since it is common
              behavior to write core dumps into the current working  directory
              and the root directory is not a good directory to use.

              This option has no effect when --detach is not specified.

       --no-self-confinement
              By  default  daemon will try to self-confine itself to work with
              files under well-known directories determined during build.   It
              is  better  to  stick  with this default behavior and not to use
              this flag unless some other Access Control is  used  to  confine
              daemon.  Note that in contrast to other access control implemen‐
              tations  that are typically enforced from kernel-space (e.g. DAC
              or MAC), self-confinement is imposed from the user-space  daemon
              itself  and hence should not be considered as a full confinement
              strategy, but instead should be viewed as an additional layer of
              security.

       --user Causes ovs-testcontroller to run as a different  user  specified
              in  "user:group",  thus  dropping  most  of the root privileges.
              Short forms "user" and ":group" are also allowed,  with  current
              user  or group are assumed respectively. Only daemons started by
              the root user accepts this argument.

              On   Linux,   daemons   will   be   granted   CAP_IPC_LOCK   and
              CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICES  before  dropping root privileges. Daemons
              that interact with a datapath, such  as  ovs-vswitchd,  will  be
              granted  three  additional  capabilities,  namely CAP_NET_ADMIN,
              CAP_NET_BROADCAST and CAP_NET_RAW.  The capability  change  will
              apply even if the new user is root.

              On Windows, this option is not currently supported. For security
              reasons,  specifying  this  option will cause the daemon process
              not to start.

       -v[spec]
       --verbose=[spec]
              Sets logging levels.  Without any spec, sets the log  level  for
              every  module and destination to dbg.  Otherwise, spec is a list
              of words separated by spaces or commas or colons, up to one from
              each category below:

              •      A valid module name, as displayed by the  vlog/list  com‐
                     mand on ovs-appctl(8), limits the log level change to the
                     specified module.

              •      syslog,  console,  or file, to limit the log level change
                     to only to the system log, to the console, or to a  file,
                     respectively.   (If  --detach  is specified, ovs-testcon‐
                     troller closes its standard file descriptors, so  logging
                     to the console will have no effect.)

                     On  Windows platform, syslog is accepted as a word and is
                     only useful along with the  --syslog-target  option  (the
                     word has no effect otherwise).

              •      off,  emer,  err,  warn, info, or dbg, to control the log
                     level.  Messages of the given severity or higher will  be
                     logged,  and  messages of lower severity will be filtered
                     out.  off filters out all  messages.   See  ovs-appctl(8)
                     for a definition of each log level.

              Case is not significant within spec.

              Regardless  of  the  log  levels set for file, logging to a file
              will not take place unless --log-file is also specified (see be‐
              low).

              For compatibility with older versions of OVS, any is accepted as
              a word but has no effect.

       -v
       --verbose
              Sets the maximum logging verbosity level, equivalent  to  --ver‐
              bose=dbg.

       -vPATTERN:destination:pattern
       --verbose=PATTERN:destination:pattern
              Sets  the  log  pattern  for  destination  to pattern.  Refer to
              ovs-appctl(8) for a description of the valid syntax for pattern.

       -vFACILITY:facility
       --verbose=FACILITY:facility
              Sets the RFC5424 facility of the log message.  facility  can  be
              one  of kern, user, mail, daemon, auth, syslog, lpr, news, uucp,
              clock, ftp, ntp, audit, alert, clock2, local0,  local1,  local2,
              local3,  local4, local5, local6 or local7. If this option is not
              specified, daemon is used as the default for  the  local  system
              syslog  and local0 is used while sending a message to the target
              provided via the --syslog-target option.

       --log-file[=file]
              Enables logging to a file.  If file is  specified,  then  it  is
              used  as  the exact name for the log file.  The default log file
              name  used  if  file  is  omitted  is   /usr/local/var/log/open‐
              vswitch/ovs-testcontroller.log.

       --syslog-target=host:port
              Send  syslog  messages  to  UDP port on host, in addition to the
              system syslog.  The host must be a numerical IP address,  not  a
              hostname.

       --syslog-method=method
              Specify method how syslog messages should be sent to syslog dae‐
              mon.  Following forms are supported:

              •      libc, use libc syslog() function.  Downside of using this
                     options  is  that libc adds fixed prefix to every message
                     before it is actually sent  to  the  syslog  daemon  over
                     /dev/log UNIX domain socket.

              •      unix:file, use UNIX domain socket directly.  It is possi‐
                     ble to specify arbitrary message format with this option.
                     However,  rsyslogd  8.9 and older versions use hard coded
                     parser function anyway that  limits  UNIX  domain  socket
                     use.   If  you  want to use arbitrary message format with
                     older rsyslogd versions, then use UDP socket to localhost
                     IP address instead.

              •      udp:ip:port, use UDP socket.  With this method it is pos‐
                     sible to use arbitrary message  format  also  with  older
                     rsyslogd.   When  sending syslog messages over UDP socket
                     extra precaution needs to be taken into account, for  ex‐
                     ample,  syslog daemon needs to be configured to listen on
                     the specified UDP port, accidental iptables  rules  could
                     be  interfering  with  local syslog traffic and there are
                     some security considerations that apply to  UDP  sockets,
                     but do not apply to UNIX domain sockets.

              •      null, discards all messages logged to syslog.

              The  default  is  taken  from  the OVS_SYSLOG_METHOD environment
              variable; if it is unset, the default is libc.

       --unixctl=socket
              Sets the name of the control socket on which  ovs-testcontroller
              listens  for runtime management commands (see RUNTIME MANAGEMENT
              COMMANDS, below).  If socket does not begin with /, it is inter‐
              preted  as  relative  to   /usr/local/var/run/openvswitch.    If
              --unixctl  is  not  used  at all, the default socket is /usr/lo‐
              cal/var/run/openvswitch/ovs-testcontroller.pid.ctl, where pid is
              ovs-testcontroller's process ID.

              On Windows a local named pipe is used to listen for runtime man‐
              agement commands.  A file is created in  the  absolute  path  as
              pointed  by socket or if --unixctl is not used at all, a file is
              created as ovs-testcontroller.ctl in the  configured  OVS_RUNDIR
              directory.  The file exists just to mimic the behavior of a Unix
              domain socket.

              Specifying none for socket disables the control socket feature.

       -h
       --help Prints a brief help message to the console.

       -V
       --version
              Prints version information to the console.

       -O [version[,version]...]
       --protocols=[version[,version]...]
              Sets the OpenFlow protocol versions that are allowed when estab‐
              lishing an OpenFlow session.

              These protocol versions are enabled by default:

              •      OpenFlow10, for OpenFlow 1.0.
       The  following  protocol versions are generally supported, but for com‐
       patibility with older versions of Open vSwitch they are not enabled  by
       default:

              •      OpenFlow11, for OpenFlow 1.1.

              •      OpenFlow12, for OpenFlow 1.2.

              •      OpenFlow13, for OpenFlow 1.3.

              •      OpenFlow14, for OpenFlow 1.4.

              •      OpenFlow15, for OpenFlow 1.5.

EXAMPLES
       To  bind  locally to port 6653 (the default) and wait for incoming con‐
       nections from OpenFlow switches:

              % ovs-testcontroller ptcp:

SEE ALSO
       ovs-appctl(8), ovs-ofctl(8), ovs-dpctl(8)

Open vSwitch                         3.5.0               ovs-testcontroller(8)
