ovs-ctl(8)                    Open vSwitch Manual                   ovs-ctl(8)



NAME
       ovs-kmod-ctl - OVS startup helper script for loading kernel modules

SYNOPSIS
       ovs-kmod-ctl insert
       ovs-kmod-ctl remove
       ovs-kmod-ctl help | -h | --help
       ovs-kmod-ctl --version
       ovs-kmod-ctl version

DESCRIPTION
       The ovs-kmod-ctl program is responsible for inserting and removing Open
       vSwitch kernel modules.  It is not meant to be invoked directly by sys‐
       tem  administrators  but  to  be  called  internally  by system startup
       scripts.  The script is used as part of an SELinux transition domain.

       Each of ovs-kmod-ctl's commands is described separately below.

The ``insert'' command
       The insert command loads the Open vSwitch kernel  modules,  if  needed.
       If  this  fails,  and  the Linux bridge module is loaded but no bridges
       exist, it tries to unload the bridge module and tries loading the  Open
       vSwitch kernel module again.

The ``remove'' command
       The  remove  command  unloads the Open vSwitch kernel module (including
       the bridge compatibility module, if loaded) and  any  associated  vport
       modules.

EXIT STATUS
       ovs-kmod-ctl  exits  with  status  0 on success and nonzero on failure.
       The insert command is considered  to  succeed  if  kernel  modules  are
       already  loaded; the remove command is considered to succeed if none of
       the kernel modules are loaded.

ENVIRONMENT
       The following environment variables affect ovs-kmod-ctl:

       PATH   ovs-kmod-ctl does not hardcode the location of any of  the  pro‐
              grams  that  it  runs.   ovs-kmod-ctl  will  add the sbindir and
              bindir that were specified at configure time to  PATH,  if  they
              are not already present.

       OVS_LOGDIR
       OVS_RUNDIR
       OVS_DBDIR
       OVS_SYSCONFDIR
       OVS_PKGDATADIR
       OVS_BINDIR
       OVS_SBINDIR
              Setting  one of these variables in the environment overrides the
              respective configure option, both for  ovs-kmod-ctl  itself  and
              for the other Open vSwitch programs that it runs.

FILES
       ovs-kmod-ctl uses the following files:

       ovs-lib
              Shell function library used internally by ovs-kmod-ctl.  It must
              be installed in the same directory as ovs-kmod-ctl.

EXAMPLE
       ovs-kmod-ctl isn't intended to be manually executed.  However, the fol‐
       lowing examples demonstrate loading the kernel modules.

       ovs-kmod-ctl insert
              Attempts to insert the Open vSwitch kernel modules.

       ovs-kmod-ctl remove
              Attempts to remove the Open vSwitch kernel modules.

SEE ALSO
       README.rst, ovs-ctl(8)



Open vSwitch                     February 2018                      ovs-ctl(8)
