Local_Config(5)               Open vSwitch Manual              Local_Config(5)

NAME
       Local_Config - Local_Config database schema

       This  database is for local configuration of an ovsdb-server. The data‐
       base is meant to be unique, even among multiple clustered  db  servers,
       so  that  configuration  that is local to that server can be configured
       separately (e.g. Connection information).

TABLE SUMMARY
       The following list summarizes the purpose of each of the tables in  the
       Local_Config  database.   Each  table  is described in more detail on a
       later page.

       Table     Purpose
       Config    ovsdb-server configuration
       Connection
                 OVSDB client connections.

Config TABLE
       The root local configuration table for an ovsdb-server. This table must
       have exactly one row.

   Summary:
       Connection Options:
         connections                 set of Connections

   Details:
     Connection Options:

       connections: set of Connections
              Database clients to  which  the  Open  vSwitch  database  server
              should  connect or on which it should listen, along with options
              for how these connections should be configured. See the  Connec‐
              tion table for more information.

Connection TABLE
       Configuration  for  a  database  connection to an Open vSwitch database
       (OVSDB) client.

       This table  primarily  configures  the  Open  vSwitch  database  server
       (ovsdb-server).

       The  Open vSwitch database server can initiate and maintain active con‐
       nections to remote clients. It can also  listen  for  database  connec‐
       tions.

   Summary:
       Core Features:
         target                      string (must be unique within table)
         read_only                   boolean
         role                        string
       Client Failure Detection and Handling:
         max_backoff                 optional integer, at least 1,000
         inactivity_probe            optional integer
       Status:
         is_connected                boolean
         status : last_error         optional string
         status : state              optional  string, one of ACTIVE, BACKOFF,
                                     CONNECTING, IDLE, or VOID
         status : sec_since_connect  optional string, containing  an  integer,
                                     at least 0
         status : sec_since_disconnect
                                     optional  string,  containing an integer,
                                     at least 0
         status : locks_held         optional string
         status : locks_waiting      optional string
         status : locks_lost         optional string
         status : n_connections      optional string, containing  an  integer,
                                     at least 2
         status : bound_port         optional string, containing an integer
       Connection Parameters:
         other_config : dscp         optional string, containing an integer
       Configuration:
         external_ids                map of string-string pairs

   Details:
     Core Features:

       target: string (must be unique within table)
              Connection methods for clients.

              The following connection methods are currently supported:

              ssl:host[:port]
                     The specified SSL/TLS port on the host at the given host,
                     which can either be a DNS name (if built with unbound li‐
                     brary)  or  an  IP address. A valid SSL/TLS configuration
                     must be provided when this form is used, this  configura‐
                     tion can be specified via command-line options or the SSL
                     table.

                     If port is not specified, it defaults to 6640.

                     SSL/TLS support is an optional feature that is not always
                     built as part of Open vSwitch.

              tcp:host[:port]
                     The  specified  TCP  port  on the host at the given host,
                     which can either be a DNS name (if built with unbound li‐
                     brary) or an IP address. If host is an IPv6 address, wrap
                     it in square brackets, e.g. tcp:[::1]:6640.

                     If port is not specified, it defaults to 6640.

              pssl:[port][:host]
                     Listens for SSL/TLS  connections  on  the  specified  TCP
                     port. Specify 0 for port to have the kernel automatically
                     choose  an available port. If host, which can either be a
                     DNS name (if built with unbound library)  or  an  IP  ad‐
                     dress,  is  specified, then connections are restricted to
                     the resolved or specified local IPaddress (either IPv4 or
                     IPv6 address). If host is an IPv6 address, wrap in square
                     brackets, e.g. pssl:6640:[::1]. If host is not  specified
                     then  it listens only on IPv4 (but not IPv6) addresses. A
                     valid SSL/TLS configuration must be  provided  when  this
                     form  is  used, this can be specified either via command-
                     line options or the SSL table.

                     If port is not specified, it defaults to 6640.

                     SSL/TLS support is an optional feature that is not always
                     built as part of Open vSwitch.

              ptcp:[port][:host]
                     Listens for connections on the specified TCP port.  Spec‐
                     ify 0 for port to have the kernel automatically choose an
                     available  port.  If host, which can either be a DNS name
                     (if built with unbound library)  or  an  IP  address,  is
                     specified,  then  connections  are  restricted to the re‐
                     solved or specified local IP address (either IPv4 or IPv6
                     address). If host is an IPv6 address, wrap it  in  square
                     brackets,  e.g. ptcp:6640:[::1]. If host is not specified
                     then it listens only on IPv4 addresses.

                     If port is not specified, it defaults to 6640.

              When multiple clients are configured, the target values must  be
              unique. Duplicate target values yield unspecified results.

       read_only: boolean
              true  to  restrict  these connections to read-only transactions,
              false to allow them to modify the database.

       role: string
              String containing role name for this connection entry.

     Client Failure Detection and Handling:

       max_backoff: optional integer, at least 1,000
              Maximum number of milliseconds to wait  between  connection  at‐
              tempts. Default is implementation-specific.

       inactivity_probe: optional integer
              Maximum number of milliseconds of idle time on connection to the
              client  before  sending  an  inactivity  probe  message. If Open
              vSwitch does not communicate with the client for  the  specified
              number  of  seconds,  it will send a probe. If a response is not
              received for the same additional amount of  time,  Open  vSwitch
              assumes  the  connection  has been broken and attempts to recon‐
              nect. Default is implementation-specific. A value of 0  disables
              inactivity probes.

     Status:

       Key-value pair of is_connected is always updated. Other key-value pairs
       in the status columns may be updated depends on the target type.

       When target specifies a connection method that listens for inbound con‐
       nections  (e.g.  ptcp:  or punix:), both n_connections and is_connected
       may also be updated while the remaining key-value pairs are omitted.

       On the other hand, when target specifies an  outbound  connection,  all
       key-value  pairs  may  be  updated, except the above-mentioned two key-
       value pairs associated with inbound connection targets. They are  omit‐
       ted.

       is_connected: boolean
              true if currently connected to this client, false otherwise.

       status : last_error: optional string
              A human-readable description of the last error on the connection
              to  the  manager; i.e. strerror(errno). This key will exist only
              if an error has occurred.

       status : state: optional string, one of ACTIVE, BACKOFF, CONNECTING,
       IDLE, or VOID
              The state of the connection to the manager:

              VOID   Connection is disabled.

              BACKOFF
                     Attempting to reconnect at an increasing period.

              CONNECTING
                     Attempting to connect.

              ACTIVE Connected, remote host responsive.

              IDLE   Connection is idle. Waiting for response to keep-alive.

              These values may change in the future. They  are  provided  only
              for human consumption.

       status : sec_since_connect: optional string, containing an integer, at
       least 0
              The amount of time since this client last successfully connected
              to the database (in seconds). Value is empty if client has never
              successfully been connected.

       status : sec_since_disconnect: optional string, containing an integer,
       at least 0
              The  amount of time since this client last disconnected from the
              database (in seconds). Value is empty if client has  never  dis‐
              connected.

       status : locks_held: optional string
              Space-separated  list  of the names of OVSDB locks that the con‐
              nection holds. Omitted if  the  connection  does  not  hold  any
              locks.

       status : locks_waiting: optional string
              Space-separated  list  of the names of OVSDB locks that the con‐
              nection is currently waiting to acquire. Omitted if the  connec‐
              tion is not waiting for any locks.

       status : locks_lost: optional string
              Space-separated  list  of the names of OVSDB locks that the con‐
              nection has had stolen by another OVSDB client.  Omitted  if  no
              locks have been stolen from this connection.

       status : n_connections: optional string, containing an integer, at
       least 2
              When  target  specifies a connection method that listens for in‐
              bound connections (e.g. ptcp: or pssl:) and more than  one  con‐
              nection  is  actually  active, the value is the number of active
              connections. Otherwise, this key-value pair is omitted.

       status : bound_port: optional string, containing an integer
              When target is ptcp: or pssl:, this is the TCP port on which the
              OVSDB server is listening. (This  is  particularly  useful  when
              target  specifies a port of 0, allowing the kernel to choose any
              available port.)

     Connection Parameters:

       other_config : dscp: optional string, containing an integer
              The Differentiated Service Code Point (DSCP) is specified  using
              6 bits in the Type of Service (TOS) field in the IP header. DSCP
              provides a mechanism to classify the network traffic and provide
              Quality  of  Service (QoS) on IP networks. The DSCP value speci‐
              fied here is used when establishing the connection  between  the
              manager  and  the  Open vSwitch. If no value is specified, a de‐
              fault value of 48 is chosen. Valid DSCP values must  be  in  the
              range 0 to 63.

     Configuration:

       External configuration options

       external_ids: map of string-string pairs
              External client-defined key-value pairs

Open vSwitch 3.5.0              DB Schema 1.0.0                Local_Config(5)
