vtep-ctl(8)                   Open vSwitch Manual                  vtep-ctl(8)



NAME
       vtep-ctl - utility for querying and configuring a VTEP database

SYNOPSIS
       vtep-ctl  [options]  --  [options] command [args] [-- [options] command
       [args]]...

DESCRIPTION
       The vtep-ctl program configures a VTEP database.  See vtep(5) for  com‐
       prehensive documentation of the database schema.

       vtep-ctl connects to an ovsdb-server process that maintains a VTEP con‐
       figuration database.  Using this connection, it  queries  and  possibly
       applies changes to the database, depending on the supplied commands.

       vtep-ctl  can  perform  any  number of commands in a single run, imple‐
       mented as a single atomic transaction against the database.

       The vtep-ctl command line begins with global options (see OPTIONS below
       for details).  The global options are followed by one or more commands.
       Each command should begin with -- by itself as a command-line argument,
       to  separate  it from the following commands.  (The -- before the first
       command is optional.)  The command itself starts with  command-specific
       options,  if  any, followed by the command name and any arguments.  See
       EXAMPLES below for syntax examples.

OPTIONS
       The following options affect the behavior vtep-ctl as  a  whole.   Some
       individual commands also accept their own options, which are given just
       before the command name.  If the first command on the command line  has
       options,  then  those options must be separated from the global options
       by --.

       --db=server
              Sets server as the database server  that  vtep-ctl  contacts  to
              query    or    modify    configuration.     The    default    is
              unix:/usr/local/var/run/openvswitch/db.sock.  server  must  take
              one of the following forms:

              ssl:ip:port
                     The specified SSL port on the host at the given ip, which
                     must be expressed as an IP address (not a  DNS  name)  in
                     IPv4  or  IPv6 address format.  If ip is an IPv6 address,
                     then wrap ip with square brackets, e.g.:  ssl:[::1]:6640.
                     The  --private-key,  --certificate, and --ca-cert options
                     are mandatory when this form is used.

              tcp:ip:port
                     Connect to the given TCP port on ip, where ip can be IPv4
                     or  IPv6  address. If ip is an IPv6 address, then wrap ip
                     with square brackets, e.g.: tcp:[::1]:6640.

              unix:file
                     On POSIX, connect to the Unix domain server socket  named
                     file.

                     On  Windows, connect to a local named pipe that is repre‐
                     sented by a file created in the path file  to  mimic  the
                     behavior of a Unix domain socket.

              pssl:port[:ip]
                     Listen  on  the  given  SSL  port  for  a connection.  By
                     default, connections are not bound to a particular  local
                     IP  address  and  it  listens only on IPv4 (but not IPv6)
                     addresses, but specifying ip limits connections to  those
                     from the given ip, either IPv4 or IPv6 address.  If ip is
                     an IPv6 address, then wrap ip with square brackets, e.g.:
                     pssl:6640:[::1].   The  --private-key, --certificate, and
                     --ca-cert options are mandatory when this form is used.

              ptcp:port[:ip]
                     Listen on the  given  TCP  port  for  a  connection.   By
                     default,  connections are not bound to a particular local
                     IP address and it listens only on  IPv4  (but  not  IPv6)
                     addresses,  but  ip  may  be specified to listen only for
                     connections to the given ip, either IPv4 or IPv6 address.
                     If ip is an IPv6 address, then wrap ip with square brack‐
                     ets, e.g.: ptcp:6640:[::1].

              punix:file
                     On POSIX, listen on the Unix domain server  socket  named
                     file for a connection.

                     On Windows, listen on a local named pipe.  A file is cre‐
                     ated in the path file to mimic the  behavior  of  a  Unix
                     domain socket.

       --no-syslog
              By  default,  vtep-ctl logs its arguments and the details of any
              changes that it makes to the system log.  This  option  disables
              this logging.

              This option is equivalent to --verbose=vtep_ctl:syslog:warn.

       --oneline
              Modifies  the  output format so that the output for each command
              is printed on a single line.   New-line  characters  that  would
              otherwise separate lines are printed as \n, and any instances of
              \ that would otherwise appear in the output are doubled.  Prints
              a  blank  line for each command that has no output.  This option
              does not affect the formatting of output from the list  or  find
              commands; see Table Formatting Options below.

       --dry-run
              Prevents vtep-ctl from actually modifying the database.

       -t secs
       --timeout=secs
              By  default,  or  with a secs of 0, vtep-ctl waits forever for a
              response from the  database.   This  option  limits  runtime  to
              approximately  secs  seconds.   If the timeout expires, vtep-ctl
              will exit with a SIGALRM signal.  (A timeout would normally hap‐
              pen  only  if the database cannot be contacted, or if the system
              is overloaded.)

   Table Formatting Options
       These options control the format of output from the list and find  com‐
       mands.

       -f format
       --format=format
              Sets  the type of table formatting.  The following types of for‐
              mat are available:

              table  2-D text tables with aligned columns.

              list (default)
                     A list with one column per line and rows separated  by  a
                     blank line.

              html   HTML tables.

              csv    Comma-separated values as defined in RFC 4180.

              json   JSON  format  as  defined  in  RFC 4627.  The output is a
                     sequence of JSON objects, each of  which  corresponds  to
                     one  table.   Each  JSON object has the following members
                     with the noted values:

                     caption
                            The table's caption.  This member  is  omitted  if
                            the table has no caption.

                     headings
                            An  array with one element per table column.  Each
                            array element is a string giving the corresponding
                            column's heading.

                     data   An  array  with  one  element per table row.  Each
                            element is also an array with one element per  ta‐
                            ble  column.   The  elements  of this second-level
                            array are the cells  that  constitute  the  table.
                            Cells  that represent OVSDB data or data types are
                            expressed in the format  described  in  the  OVSDB
                            specification; other cells are simply expressed as
                            text strings.

       -d format
       --data=format
              Sets the formatting for cells within output tables.  The follow‐
              ing types of format are available:

              string (default)
                     The  simple  format described in the Database Values sec‐
                     tion of ovs-vsctl(8).

              bare   The simple format with punctuation stripped off:  []  and
                     {}  are  omitted  around  sets,  maps, and empty columns,
                     items within  sets  and  maps  are  space-separated,  and
                     strings  are never quoted.  This format may be easier for
                     scripts to parse.

              json   JSON.

              The json output format always  outputs  cells  in  JSON  format,
              ignoring this option.

       --no-heading
              This option suppresses the heading row that otherwise appears in
              the first row of table output.

       --pretty
              By default, JSON in output is printed as compactly as  possible.
              This  option causes JSON in output to be printed in a more read‐
              able fashion.  Members of objects and  elements  of  arrays  are
              printed one per line, with indentation.

              This  option  does  not  affect  JSON in tables, which is always
              printed compactly.

       --bare Equivalent to --format=list --data=bare --no-headings.

   Public Key Infrastructure Options
       -p privkey.pem
       --private-key=privkey.pem
              Specifies  a  PEM  file  containing  the  private  key  used  as
              vtep-ctl's identity for outgoing SSL connections.

       -c cert.pem
       --certificate=cert.pem
              Specifies a PEM file containing a certificate that certifies the
              private key specified on -p or --private-key to be  trustworthy.
              The certificate must be signed by the certificate authority (CA)
              that the peer in SSL connections will use to verify it.

       -C cacert.pem
       --ca-cert=cacert.pem
              Specifies a PEM file containing the CA certificate that vtep-ctl
              should  use to verify certificates presented to it by SSL peers.
              (This may be the same certificate that SSL peers use  to  verify
              the certificate specified on -c or --certificate, or it may be a
              different one, depending on the PKI design in use.)

       -C none
       --ca-cert=none
              Disables verification of certificates presented  by  SSL  peers.
              This  introduces a security risk, because it means that certifi‐
              cates cannot be verified to be those of known trusted hosts.

       --bootstrap-ca-cert=cacert.pem
              When cacert.pem exists, this option has the same effect as -C or
              --ca-cert.   If it does not exist, then vtep-ctl will attempt to
              obtain the CA certificate from the SSL peer  on  its  first  SSL
              connection and save it to the named PEM file.  If it is success‐
              ful, it will immediately drop the connection and reconnect,  and
              from then on all SSL connections must be authenticated by a cer‐
              tificate signed by the CA certificate thus obtained.

              This option exposes the SSL connection  to  a  man-in-the-middle
              attack  obtaining the initial CA certificate, but it may be use‐
              ful for bootstrapping.

              This option is only useful if the SSL peer sends its CA certifi‐
              cate  as  part  of  the SSL certificate chain.  The SSL protocol
              does not require the server to send the CA certificate.

              This option is mutually exclusive with -C and --ca-cert.

       --peer-ca-cert=peer-cacert.pem
              Specifies a PEM file that contains one or more  additional  cer‐
              tificates  to  send to SSL peers.  peer-cacert.pem should be the
              CA certificate used to sign vtep-ctl's own certificate, that is,
              the certificate specified on -c or --certificate.  If vtep-ctl's
              certificate   is    self-signed,    then    --certificate    and
              --peer-ca-cert should specify the same file.

              This  option  is not useful in normal operation, because the SSL
              peer must already have the CA certificate for the peer  to  have
              any  confidence  in vtep-ctl's identity.  However, this offers a
              way for a new installation to bootstrap the  CA  certificate  on
              its first SSL connection.

       -v[spec]
       --verbose=[spec]
              Sets  logging  levels.  Without any spec, sets the log level for
              every module and destination to dbg.  Otherwise, spec is a  list
              of words separated by spaces or commas or colons, up to one from
              each category below:

              ·      A valid module name, as displayed by the  vlog/list  com‐
                     mand on ovs-appctl(8), limits the log level change to the
                     specified module.

              ·      syslog, console, or file, to limit the log  level  change
                     to  only to the system log, to the console, or to a file,
                     respectively.  (If --detach is specified, vtep-ctl closes
                     its  standard file descriptors, so logging to the console
                     will have no effect.)

                     On Windows platform, syslog is accepted as a word and  is
                     only  useful  along  with the --syslog-target option (the
                     word has no effect otherwise).

              ·      off, emer, err, warn, info, or dbg, to  control  the  log
                     level.   Messages of the given severity or higher will be
                     logged, and messages of lower severity will  be  filtered
                     out.   off  filters  out all messages.  See ovs-appctl(8)
                     for a definition of each log level.

              Case is not significant within spec.

              Regardless of the log levels set for file,  logging  to  a  file
              will  not  take  place  unless --log-file is also specified (see
              below).

              For compatibility with older versions of OVS, any is accepted as
              a word but has no effect.

       -v
       --verbose
              Sets  the  maximum logging verbosity level, equivalent to --ver‐
              bose=dbg.

       -vPATTERN:destination:pattern
       --verbose=PATTERN:destination:pattern
              Sets the log pattern  for  destination  to  pattern.   Refer  to
              ovs-appctl(8) for a description of the valid syntax for pattern.

       -vFACILITY:facility
       --verbose=FACILITY:facility
              Sets  the  RFC5424  facility of the log message. facility can be
              one of kern, user, mail, daemon, auth, syslog, lpr, news,  uucp,
              clock,  ftp,  ntp, audit, alert, clock2, local0, local1, local2,
              local3, local4, local5, local6 or local7. If this option is  not
              specified,  daemon  is  used as the default for the local system
              syslog and local0 is used while sending a message to the  target
              provided via the --syslog-target option.

       --log-file[=file]
              Enables  logging  to  a  file.  If file is specified, then it is
              used as the exact name for the log file.  The default  log  file
              name   used  if  file  is  omitted  is  /usr/local/var/log/open‐
              vswitch/vtep-ctl.log.

       --syslog-target=host:port
              Send syslog messages to UDP port on host,  in  addition  to  the
              system  syslog.   The host must be a numerical IP address, not a
              hostname.

       --syslog-method=method
              Specify method how syslog messages should be sent to syslog dae‐
              mon.  Following forms are supported:

              ·      libc,  use  libc  syslog() function.  This is the default
                     behavior.  Downside of using this options  is  that  libc
                     adds  fixed prefix to every message before it is actually
                     sent to the  syslog  daemon  over  /dev/log  UNIX  domain
                     socket.

              ·      unix:file, use UNIX domain socket directly.  It is possi‐
                     ble to specify arbitrary message format with this option.
                     However,  rsyslogd  8.9 and older versions use hard coded
                     parser function anyway that  limits  UNIX  domain  socket
                     use.   If  you  want to use arbitrary message format with
                     older rsyslogd versions, then use UDP socket to localhost
                     IP address instead.

              ·      udp:ip:port, use UDP socket.  With this method it is pos‐
                     sible to use arbitrary message  format  also  with  older
                     rsyslogd.   When  sending syslog messages over UDP socket
                     extra precaution needs to  be  taken  into  account,  for
                     example,  syslog  daemon needs to be configured to listen
                     on the specified  UDP  port,  accidental  iptables  rules
                     could  be interfering with local syslog traffic and there
                     are some security considerations that apply to UDP  sock‐
                     ets, but do not apply to UNIX domain sockets.

       -h
       --help Prints a brief help message to the console.

       -V
       --version
              Prints version information to the console.

COMMANDS
       The  commands  implemented  by  vtep-ctl  are described in the sections
       below.

   Physical Switch Commands
       These commands examine and manipulate physical switches.

       [--may-exist] add-ps pswitch
              Creates a new physical  switch  named  pswitch.   Initially  the
              switch will have no ports.

              Without  --may-exist,  attempting to create a switch that exists
              is an error.  With --may-exist, this  command  does  nothing  if
              pswitch already exists.

       [--if-exists] del-ps pswitch
              Deletes pswitch and all of its ports.

              Without --if-exists, attempting to delete a switch that does not
              exist is an error.  With --if-exists,  attempting  to  delete  a
              switch that does not exist has no effect.

       list-ps
              Lists all existing physical switches on standard output, one per
              line.

       ps-exists pswitch
              Tests whether pswitch exists.  If so,  vtep-ctl  exits  success‐
              fully  with  exit code 0.  If not, vtep-ctl exits unsuccessfully
              with exit code 2.

   Port Commands
       These commands examine and manipulate VTEP physical ports.

       list-ports pswitch
              Lists all of the ports within pswitch on  standard  output,  one
              per line.

       [--may-exist] add-port pswitch port
              Creates on pswitch a new port named port from the network device
              of the same name.

              Without --may-exist, attempting to create a port that exists  is
              an  error.   With --may-exist, this command does nothing if port
              already exists on pswitch.

       [--if-exists] del-port [pswitch] port
              Deletes port.  If pswitch is omitted, port is removed from what‐
              ever switch contains it; if pswitch is specified, it must be the
              switch that contains port.

              Without --if-exists, attempting to delete a port that  does  not
              exist  is  an  error.   With --if-exists, attempting to delete a
              port that does not exist has no effect.

   Logical Switch Commands
       These commands examine and manipulate logical switches.

       [--may-exist] add-ls lswitch
              Creates a new  logical  switch  named  lswitch.   Initially  the
              switch will have no locator bindings.

              Without  --may-exist,  attempting to create a switch that exists
              is an error.  With --may-exist, this  command  does  nothing  if
              lswitch already exists.

       [--if-exists] del-ls lswitch
              Deletes lswitch.

              Without --if-exists, attempting to delete a switch that does not
              exist is an error.  With --if-exists,  attempting  to  delete  a
              switch that does not exist has no effect.

       list-ls
              Lists  all existing logical switches on standard output, one per
              line.

       ls-exists lswitch
              Tests whether lswitch exists.  If so,  vtep-ctl  exits  success‐
              fully  with  exit code 0.  If not, vtep-ctl exits unsuccessfully
              with exit code 2.

       bind-ls pswitch port vlan lswitch
              Bind logical switch lswitch to the port/vlan combination on  the
              physical switch pswitch.

       unbind-ls pswitch port vlan
              Remove the logical switch binding from the port/vlan combination
              on the physical switch pswitch.

       list-bindings pswitch port
              List the logical switch bindings for port on the physical switch
              pswitch.

       set-replication-mode lswitch replication-mode
              Set logical switch lswitch replication mode to replication-mode;
              the only valid values for replication  mode  are  "service_node"
              and  "source_node".   For  handling  L2 broadcast, multicast and
              unknown unicast traffic, packets can be sent to all members of a
              logical  switch referenced by a physical switch.  There are dif‐
              ferent modes to replicate the  packets.   The  default  mode  of
              replication  is to send the traffic to a service node, which can
              be a hypervisor, server or appliance, and let the  service  node
              handle  replication  to  other  transport  nodes (hypervisors or
              other VTEP physical switches).  This mode is called service node
              replication.   An  alternate  mode of replication, called source
              node replication involves the source node sending to  all  other
              transport  nodes.   Hypervisors are always responsible for doing
              their own replication for locally attached VMs  in  both  modes.
              Service node mode is the default, if the replication mode is not
              explicitly set.  Service node replication mode is  considered  a
              basic requirement because it only requires sending the packet to
              a single transport node.

       get-replication-mode lswitch
              Get logical switch lswitch replication  mode.   The  only  valid
              values    for    replication   mode   are   "service_node"   and
              "source_node".  An empty reply for replication  mode  implies  a
              default of "service_node".

   Logical Router Commands
       These commands examine and manipulate logical routers.

       [--may-exist] add-lr lrouter
              Creates a new logical router named lrouter.

              Without  --may-exist,  attempting to create a router that exists
              is an error.  With --may-exist, this  command  does  nothing  if
              lrouter already exists.

       [--if-exists] del-lr lrouter
              Deletes lrouter.

              Without --if-exists, attempting to delete a router that does not
              exist is an error.  With --if-exists,  attempting  to  delete  a
              router that does not exist has no effect.

       list-lr
              Lists  all  existing logical routers on standard output, one per
              line.

       lr-exists lrouter
              Tests whether lrouter exists.  If so,  vtep-ctl  exits  success‐
              fully  with  exit code 0.  If not, vtep-ctl exits unsuccessfully
              with exit code 2.


   Local MAC Binding Commands
       These commands examine and manipulate local MAC bindings for the  logi‐
       cal switch.  The local maps are written by the VTEP to refer to MACs it
       has learned on its physical ports.

       add-ucast-local lswitch mac [encap] ip
              Map the unicast Ethernet address mac to the physical location ip
              using  encapsulation  encap  on lswitch.  If encap is not speci‐
              fied, the default is "vxlan_over_ipv4".  The local mappings  are
              used by the VTEP to refer to MACs learned on its physical ports.

       del-ucast-local lswitch mac
              Remove  the local unicast Ethernet address mac map from lswitch.
              The local mappings are used by the VTEP to refer to MACs learned
              on its physical ports.

       add-mcast-local lswitch mac [encap] ip
              Add  physical location ip using encapsulation encap to the local
              mac binding table for multicast Ethernet address mac on lswitch.
              If  encap  is  not  specified, the default is "vxlan_over_ipv4".
              The local mappings are used by the VTEP to refer to MACs learned
              on its physical ports.

       del-mcast-local lswitch mac [encap] ip
              Remove  physical  location ip using encapsulation encap from the
              local mac binding table for multicast Ethernet  address  mac  on
              lswitch.    If   encap   is   not   specified,  the  default  is
              "vxlan_over_ipv4".  The local mappings are used by the  VTEP  to
              refer to MACs learned on its physical ports.

       clear-local-macs lswitch
              Clear the local MAC bindings for lswitch.

       list-local-macs lswitch
              List the local MAC bindings for lswitch, one per line.

   Remote MAC Binding Commands
       These commands examine and manipulate local and remote MAC bindings for
       the logical switch.  The remote maps are written by the network  virtu‐
       alization controller to refer to MACs that it has learned.

       add-ucast-remote lswitch mac [encap] ip
              Map the unicast Ethernet address mac to the physical location ip
              using encapsulation encap on lswitch.  If encap  is  not  speci‐
              fied, the default is "vxlan_over_ipv4".  The remote mappings are
              used by the network virtualization platform  to  refer  to  MACs
              that it has learned.

       del-ucast-remote lswitch mac
              Remove the remote unicast Ethernet address mac map from lswitch.
              The remote mappings are used by the network virtualization plat‐
              form to refer to MACs that it has learned.

       add-mcast-remote lswitch mac [encap] ip
              Add physical location ip using encapsulation encap to the remote
              mac binding table for multicast Ethernet address mac on lswitch.
              If  encap  is  not  specified, the default is "vxlan_over_ipv4".
              The remote mappings are used by the network virtualization plat‐
              form to refer to MACs that it has learned.

       del-mcast-remote lswitch mac [encap] ip
              Remove  physical  location ip using encapsulation encap from the
              remote mac binding table for multicast Ethernet address  mac  on
              lswitch.    If   encap   is   not   specified,  the  default  is
              "vxlan_over_ipv4".  The remote mappings are used by the  network
              virtualization platform to refer to MACs that it has learned.

       clear-remote-macs lswitch
              Clear the remote MAC bindings for lswitch.

       list-remote-macs lswitch
              List the remote MAC bindings for lswitch, one per line.

   Manager Connectivity
       These  commands  manipulate the managers column in the Global table and
       rows in the Managers table.  When ovsdb-server is configured to use the
       managers  column  for  OVSDB  connections  (as described in the startup
       scripts provided with Open vSwitch), this allows the  administrator  to
       use vtep-ctl to configure database connections.

       get-manager
              Prints the configured manager(s).

       del-manager
              Deletes the configured manager(s).

       set-manager target...
              Sets  the configured manager target or targets.  Each target may
              use any of the following forms:

              ssl:ip:port
                     The specified SSL port on the host at the given ip, which
                     must  be  expressed  as an IP address (not a DNS name) in
                     IPv4 or IPv6 address format.  If ip is an  IPv6  address,
                     then  wrap ip with square brackets, e.g.: ssl:[::1]:6640.
                     The --private-key, --certificate, and  --ca-cert  options
                     are mandatory when this form is used.

              tcp:ip:port
                     Connect to the given TCP port on ip, where ip can be IPv4
                     or IPv6 address. If ip is an IPv6 address, then  wrap  ip
                     with square brackets, e.g.: tcp:[::1]:6640.

              unix:file
                     On  POSIX, connect to the Unix domain server socket named
                     file.

                     On Windows, connect to a local named pipe that is  repre‐
                     sented  by  a  file created in the path file to mimic the
                     behavior of a Unix domain socket.

              pssl:port[:ip]
                     Listen on the  given  SSL  port  for  a  connection.   By
                     default,  connections are not bound to a particular local
                     IP address and it listens only on  IPv4  (but  not  IPv6)
                     addresses,  but specifying ip limits connections to those
                     from the given ip, either IPv4 or IPv6 address.  If ip is
                     an IPv6 address, then wrap ip with square brackets, e.g.:
                     pssl:6640:[::1].  The --private-key,  --certificate,  and
                     --ca-cert options are mandatory when this form is used.

              ptcp:port[:ip]
                     Listen  on  the  given  TCP  port  for  a connection.  By
                     default, connections are not bound to a particular  local
                     IP  address  and  it  listens only on IPv4 (but not IPv6)
                     addresses, but ip may be specified  to  listen  only  for
                     connections to the given ip, either IPv4 or IPv6 address.
                     If ip is an IPv6 address, then wrap ip with square brack‐
                     ets, e.g.: ptcp:6640:[::1].

              punix:file
                     On  POSIX,  listen on the Unix domain server socket named
                     file for a connection.

                     On Windows, listen on a local named pipe.  A file is cre‐
                     ated  in  the  path  file to mimic the behavior of a Unix
                     domain socket.

   Database Commands
       These commands query and modify the contents of ovsdb tables.  They are
       a slight abstraction of the ovsdb interface and as such they operate at
       a lower level than other vtep-ctl commands.

     Identifying Tables, Records, and Columns

       Each of these commands has a table parameter to identify a table within
       the  database.   Many of them also take a record parameter that identi‐
       fies a particular record within a table.  The record parameter  may  be
       the  UUID  for a record, and many tables offer additional ways to iden‐
       tify records.  Some commands also take column parameters that  identify
       a particular field within the records in a table.

       The following tables are currently defined:

       Global Top-level  configuration  for  a hardware VTEP.  This table con‐
              tains exactly one record, identified  by  specifying  .  as  the
              record name.

       Manager
              Configuration  for  an OVSDB connection.  Records may be identi‐
              fied by target (e.g. tcp:1.2.3.4).

       Physical_Switch
              A physical switch that implements a VTEP.  Records may be  iden‐
              tified by physical switch name.

       Physical_Port
              A port within a physical switch.

       Logical_Binding_Stats
              Reports statistics for the logical switch with which a VLAN on a
              physical port is associated.

       Logical_Switch
              A logical Ethernet switch.  Records may be identified by logical
              switch name.

       Ucast_Macs_Local
              Mapping of locally discovered unicast MAC addresses to tunnels.

       Ucast_Macs_Remote
              Mapping of remotely programmed unicast MAC addresses to tunnels.

       Mcast_Macs_Local
              Mapping  of  locally  discovered multicast MAC addresses to tun‐
              nels.

       Mcast_Macs_Remote
              Mapping of remotely programmed multicast MAC addresses  to  tun‐
              nels.

       Physical_Locator_Set
              A set of one or more physical locators.

       Physical_Locator
              Identifies  an  endpoint  to which logical switch traffic may be
              encapsulated and forwarded.  Records may be identified by physi‐
              cal locator name.

       Record names must be specified in full and with correct capitalization.
       Names of tables and columns are not case-sensitive, and --  and  _  are
       treated interchangeably.  Unique abbreviations are acceptable, e.g. man
       or m is sufficient to identify the Manager table.

     Database Values

       Each column in the database accepts a fixed type  of  data.   The  cur‐
       rently defined basic types, and their representations, are:

       integer
              A decimal integer in the range -2**63 to 2**63-1, inclusive.

       real   A floating-point number.

       Boolean
              True or false, written true or false, respectively.

       string An  arbitrary  Unicode  string,  except  that null bytes are not
              allowed.  Quotes are optional for most strings that  begin  with
              an  English  letter  or  underscore and consist only of letters,
              underscores, hyphens, and periods.  However, true and false  and
              strings  that  match  the  syntax  of  UUIDs (see below) must be
              enclosed in double quotes to distinguish them from  other  basic
              types.   When  double  quotes  are  used,  the syntax is that of
              strings in JSON, e.g. backslashes may be used to escape  special
              characters.   The  empty string must be represented as a pair of
              double quotes ("").

       UUID   Either a universally unique identifier in the style of RFC 4122,
              e.g.  f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6,  or an @name defined
              by a get or create command within the same vtep-ctl invocation.

       Multiple values in a single column may be separated by spaces or a sin‐
       gle  comma.   When  multiple  values  are  present,  duplicates are not
       allowed, and order is not important.  Conversely, some database columns
       can have an empty set of values, represented as [], and square brackets
       may optionally enclose other non-empty sets or single values  as  well.
       For  a  column  accepting a set of integers, database commands accept a
       range. A range is represented by two integers separated by -.  A  range
       is inclusive. A range has a maximum size of 4096 elements. If more ele‐
       ments are needed, they can be specified in seperate ranges.

       A few database columns are ``maps'' of key-value pairs, where  the  key
       and  the  value are each some fixed database type.  These are specified
       in the form key=value, where key and value follow the  syntax  for  the
       column's  key  type  and value type, respectively.  When multiple pairs
       are present (separated by spaces or a comma), duplicate  keys  are  not
       allowed,  and  again  the order is not important.  Duplicate values are
       allowed.  An empty map is represented as {}.  Curly braces may  option‐
       ally  enclose  non-empty  maps  as  well (but use quotes to prevent the
       shell  from  expanding  other-config={0=x,1=y}  into   other-config=0=x
       other-config=1=y, which may not have the desired effect).

     Database Command Syntax

       [--if-exists] [--columns=column[,column]...] list table [record]...
              Lists  the  data  in  each  specified record.  If no records are
              specified, lists all the records in table.

              If --columns  is  specified,  only  the  requested  columns  are
              listed,  in  the  specified  order.   Otherwise, all columns are
              listed, in alphabetical order by column name.

              Without --if-exists, it is an error if any specified record does
              not  exist.   With  --if-exists,  the command ignores any record
              that does not exist, without producing any output.

       [--columns=column[,column]...] find table [column[:key]=value]...
              Lists the data in each record in table whose column equals value
              or,  if  key  is specified, whose column contains a key with the
              specified value.  The following operators may be used where = is
              written in the syntax summary:

              = != < > <= >=
                     Selects  records  in  which column[:key] equals, does not
                     equal, is less than, is greater than,  is  less  than  or
                     equal  to,  or is greater than or equal to value, respec‐
                     tively.

                     Consider column[:key] and  value  as  sets  of  elements.
                     Identical  sets  are considered equal.  Otherwise, if the
                     sets have different numbers of  elements,  then  the  set
                     with  more  elements  is considered to be larger.  Other‐
                     wise, consider a  element  from  each  set  pairwise,  in
                     increasing  order  within  each set.  The first pair that
                     differs determines the result.  (For a column  that  con‐
                     tains  key-value  pairs, first all the keys are compared,
                     and values are considered only if the  two  sets  contain
                     identical keys.)

              {=} {!=}
                     Test for set equality or inequality, respectively.

              {<=}   Selects  records  in  which  column[:key]  is a subset of
                     value.  For example, flood-vlans{<=}1,2  selects  records
                     in  which the flood-vlans column is the empty set or con‐
                     tains 1 or 2 or both.

              {<}    Selects records in which column[:key] is a proper  subset
                     of value.  For example, flood-vlans{<}1,2 selects records
                     in which the flood-vlans column is the empty set or  con‐
                     tains 1 or 2 but not both.

              {>=} {>}
                     Same as {<=} and {<}, respectively, except that the rela‐
                     tionship is reversed.   For  example,  flood-vlans{>=}1,2
                     selects  records in which the flood-vlans column contains
                     both 1 and 2.

              For arithmetic operators (= != < > <= >=), when key is specified
              but  a  particular  record's  column  does  not contain key, the
              record is always omitted from the results.  Thus, the  condition
              other-config:mtu!=1500 matches records that have a mtu key whose
              value is not 1500, but not those that lack an mtu key.

              For the set operators, when key is specified  but  a  particular
              record's  column  does  not  contain key, the comparison is done
              against  an  empty  set.    Thus,   the   condition   other-con‐
              fig:mtu{!=}1500  matches records that have a mtu key whose value
              is not 1500 and those that lack an mtu key.

              Don't forget to escape < or > from interpretation by the shell.

              If --columns  is  specified,  only  the  requested  columns  are
              listed,  in  the  specified  order.   Otherwise  all columns are
              listed, in alphabetical order by column name.

              The UUIDs shown for rows created in the same vtep-ctl invocation
              will be wrong.

       [--if-exists] [--id=@name] get table record [column[:key]]...
              Prints the value of each specified column in the given record in
              table.  For map columns, a key may optionally be  specified,  in
              which  case  the  value  associated  with  key  in the column is
              printed, instead of the entire map.

              Without --if-exists, it is an error if record does not exist  or
              key  is  specified,  if  key  does  not  exist  in record.  With
              --if-exists, a missing record yields no output and a missing key
              prints a blank line.

              If  @name is specified, then the UUID for record may be referred
              to by that name later in the same vtep-ctl  invocation  in  con‐
              texts where a UUID is expected.

              Both  --id and the column arguments are optional, but usually at
              least one or the other should be specified.  If both  are  omit‐
              ted,  then get has no effect except to verify that record exists
              in table.

              --id and --if-exists cannot be used together.

       [--if-exists] set table record column[:key]=value...
              Sets the value of each specified column in the given  record  in
              table to value.  For map columns, a key may optionally be speci‐
              fied, in which case the value associated with key in that column
              is  changed  (or  added,  if none exists), instead of the entire
              map.

              Without --if-exists, it is an error if record  does  not  exist.
              With  --if-exists,  this command does nothing if record does not
              exist.

       [--if-exists] add table record column [key=]value...
              Adds the specified value or key-value pair to column  in  record
              in  table.   If column is a map, then key is required, otherwise
              it is prohibited.  If key already exists in a map  column,  then
              the  current  value  is  not  replaced  (use  the set command to
              replace an existing value).

              Without --if-exists, it is an error if record  does  not  exist.
              With  --if-exists,  this command does nothing if record does not
              exist.

       [--if-exists] remove table record column value...
       [--if-exists] remove table record column key...
       [--if-exists] remove table record column key=value...
              Removes the specified values or key-value pairs from  column  in
              record in table.  The first form applies to columns that are not
              maps: each specified value is removed from the column.  The sec‐
              ond and third forms apply to map columns: if only a key is spec‐
              ified, then any key-value pair with the given  key  is  removed,
              regardless  of  its  value;  if  a value is given then a pair is
              removed only if both key and value match.

              It is not an error if the column does not contain the  specified
              key or value or pair.

              Without  --if-exists,  it  is an error if record does not exist.
              With --if-exists, this command does nothing if record  does  not
              exist.

       [--if-exists] clear table record column...
              Sets  each  column  in record in table to the empty set or empty
              map, as appropriate.  This command applies only to columns  that
              are allowed to be empty.

              Without  --if-exists,  it  is an error if record does not exist.
              With --if-exists, this command does nothing if record  does  not
              exist.

       [--id=@name] create table column[:key]=value...
              Creates  a  new  record  in table and sets the initial values of
              each column.  Columns not  explicitly  set  will  receive  their
              default values.  Outputs the UUID of the new row.

              If  @name  is  specified,  then  the UUID for the new row may be
              referred to by that name elsewhere in the same vtep-ctl  invoca‐
              tion  in contexts where a UUID is expected.  Such references may
              precede or follow the create command.

              Caution (ovs-vsctl as exmaple)
                     Records in the Open vSwitch database are significant only
                     when  they can be reached directly or indirectly from the
                     Open_vSwitch table.  Except for records  in  the  QoS  or
                     Queue  tables,  records  that  are not reachable from the
                     Open_vSwitch table are  automatically  deleted  from  the
                     database.   This  deletion  happens  immediately, without
                     waiting for additional ovs-vsctl commands or other  data‐
                     base  activity.  Thus, a create command must generally be
                     accompanied  by  additional  commands  within  the   same
                     ovs-vsctl  invocation to add a chain of references to the
                     newly created  record  from  the  top-level  Open_vSwitch
                     record.   The  EXAMPLES  section gives some examples that
                     show how to do this.

       [--if-exists] destroy table record...
              Deletes each specified record from table.  Unless --if-exists is
              specified, each records must exist.

       --all destroy table
              Deletes all records from the table.

              Caution (ovs-vsctl as exmaple)
                     The destroy command is only useful for records in the QoS
                     or Queue tables.  Records in other tables  are  automati‐
                     cally deleted from the database when they become unreach‐
                     able from the Open_vSwitch table.  This means that delet‐
                     ing  the  last  reference  to  a record is sufficient for
                     deleting the record itself.  For records in these tables,
                     destroy  is  silently  ignored.  See the EXAMPLES section
                     below for more information.

       wait-until table record [column[:key]=value]...
              Waits until table contains a record named  record  whose  column
              equals  value  or,  if key is specified, whose column contains a
              key with the specified value.  Any of the operators  !=,  <,  >,
              <=,  or >= may be substituted for = to test for inequality, less
              than, greater than, less than or equal to, or  greater  than  or
              equal  to,  respectively.   (Don't  forget to escape < or > from
              interpretation by the shell.)

              If no column[:key]=value arguments are given, this command waits
              only  until  record  exists.   If more than one such argument is
              given, the command waits until all of them are satisfied.

              Caution (ovs-vsctl as exmaple)
                     Usually wait-until should be placed at the beginning of a
                     set  of  ovs-vsctl  commands.   For  example,  wait-until
                     bridge br0 -- get bridge br0 datapath_id  waits  until  a
                     bridge  named br0 is created, then prints its datapath_id
                     column, whereas get bridge br0 datapath_id --  wait-until
                     bridge  br0 will abort if no bridge named br0 exists when
                     ovs-vsctl initially connects to the database.

              Consider specifying --timeout=0 along with --wait-until, to pre‐
              vent vtep-ctl from terminating after waiting only at most 5 sec‐
              onds.

       comment [arg]...
              This command has no effect on behavior,  but  any  database  log
              record  created  by the command will include the command and its
              arguments.

EXIT STATUS
       0      Successful program execution.

       1      Usage, syntax, or configuration file error.

       2      The switch argument to ps-exists specified the name of a  physi‐
              cal switch that does not exist.

SEE ALSO
       ovsdb-server(1), vtep(5).



Open vSwitch                      March 2013                       vtep-ctl(8)
